
City map and public transport
You can find a city map of Munich with street names and house numbers here.
Public transport in Munich is called ÖPNV (öffentlicher Personennahverkehr).
There are several different maps. The coloured zones are the fare zones. These are important for choosing the right  ticket.
A map for S-Bahn, U-Bahn and regional train.A map for S-Bahn, U-Bahn, regional train and tram.A map for S-Bahn, U-Bahn, regional train and bus. Website
You can find detailed timetables here:S-Bahn: S1, S2, S3, S4, S6, S7, S8U-Bahn: U1, U2, U3, U4, U5, U6, U7, U8Tram: 12, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 23, 25, 27You can find detailed bus timetables here.
The MVG app shows you how to travel from one place to another and how long it takes:MVG app in App StoreMVG app in Google Play Store

City map
Are you looking for a specific address or point of interest in Munich?! MAPS-Me offers a navigation function, is free and can be used offline.
How to get the map:

Download the MAPS.ME app. You can find it in the Android PlayStore or Apple App Store. It is free.
Download a map of your federal state. Munich is located in Bavaria.
Download the city map for Munich

Download from MAPS.ME in the  Android PlayStore or the  Apple App Store
How, when, where? Finding your way with public transport - ÖPNV
You can also find timetables and network plans at every bus stop. You can either buy tickets at the stations for U-Bahn and S-Bahn, in the Straßenbahnen (trams) or from the bus drivers. All network plans and timetables, connection searches and information about tariffs and tickets to print out can be found on the websites of the  MVV and  MVG. The electronic timetable information gives you the best connection reliably. It knows every stop and address, and also many important places in the city. As well as showing you the fasted connection, it also shows you the best way to reach the stops on the city plan. Two apps give you timetable information and digital mobile phone tickets for when you’re travelling: MVV app MVG appBoth apps are free to download in the app store or via Google Play. It offers not only all connections with departure and arrival times, estimated walking distances or even delays but also information about the current operating situation of the escalators and lifts. The possibility to buy mobile tickets without cash when you’re out and about is particularly useful. Simply register, select ticket and pay by credit card or direct debit. The ticket is saved on your mobile phone and you can show it at any time if there is a ticket control – even if there’s no mobile phone reception.Buying a ticketThere’s not only a large selection of tickets, but also many ways to buy a ticket:  find out more. Important:

Travelling without a ticket is punishable by a fine! A valid ticket is required for every trip. Otherwise you will pay a penalty of €60.
If you use public transport more frequently, you can find out about cheaper tickets. For example, you can buy a Streifenkarte (strip card), a day ticket or a monthly ticket.
With the München-Pass you can also get a monthly ticket at a reduced price.

