What’s the right way to behave?
Marriage
In Germany everyone can freely decide if and who he or she would like to marry and who he or she would like to live with. If you are under 18 and got married abroad already, you should ask your supervisors about this. They can explain your options about marriage and housing to you.
How do I use public transport?
You can discover the city by U-Bahn, S-Bahn, tram and bus and arrive quickly at important appointments. Before you get on, you have to buy a ticket at the ticket machines (Automaten) and have it stamped. You then show this ticket if there is a ticket check (Kontrolle).
When am I allowed to learn to drive a car?
In Germany you are only allowed to drive a car with a valid »» driving licence. Before this you have to go to a driving school, have theoretical and practical lessons for which you have to pay. You can get information about this in the driving school.
When am I allowed to open my own bank account?
When you are 18, you are allowed to open your own bank account. If you are younger, you need a representative such as your legal guardian (Vormund).
Take care!

You can easily become addicted to alcohol, drugs and gaming machines; these also cost a lot of money. If you notice that you need help, please speak to your supervisor as soon as possible or go to an addiction advice centre!
Dealing in drugs and prostitution are illegal and dangerous! It’s better to speak to your supervisor or legal guardian about these issues. They can tell you how you can legally earn money.
In Germany too, there are people who have very extreme opinions and want to spread their views by use of force. If they try to speak to you, you should get help from a person you trust. If you hook up with radicals or extremists, you will have great problems in Germany and will probably be deported.
In Germany female genital mutilation is forbidden, and forced marriage and marriage of children are also not allowed.
Travelling without a valid ticket on public transport such as buses or trains is forbidden and you will have to pay a fine.

