Do I need a certificate?
In the situations explained below, you either need a certificate confirming your German language level, or are very much recommended to have one.
Application for an apprenticeship or job
A certificate confirming your German language level improves your chances of getting an apprenticeship or job. You can stand out better compared to other applicants if you have a certificate.
Vocational further education or qualification
You often need a specific German language level to take part in vocational qualification courses. Often you need to prove this with a certificate.
Access to studying at colleges of higher education and universities
Proof of sufficient German language abilities to undertake a course at a college of higher education or a university is possible with one of these certificates:

The German language diploma from the  Kultusministerkonferenz (Standing Conference of the Ministers of Education and Cultural Affairs) (second level)
 DSH2
 TestDaf, ability level 4 in all 4 subsections.
 Assessment test (= attendance of the Studienkolleg - preparatory college. No further tests necessary)
Certificates that are recognised by bilateral agreement or other agreements recognised by the Kultusministerkonferenz (Standing Conference of the Ministers of Education and Cultural Affairs) (KMK) or the Hochschulrektorenkonferenz (German Rectors’ Conference) (HRK)
the tests at level C1 or C2 of the  Goethe Institute
 TestDaF certificates and  telc certificates of the Sprachen– und Dolmetscherinstituts München (SDI)
 “telc Deutsch C1 Hochschule”.
Completed German language and literature studies (not education studies)
Leaving certificate at the level of a Gymnasium, Studienkolleg, Fachhochschule or Hochschule

For unlimited residence permit - Niederlassungserlaubnis (settlement permit)
For a Niederlassungserlaubnis (settlement permit) you have to prove sufficient German knowledge. This is possible with the certificate after successful participation in the »» integration course “German test for migrants” (DTZ).Deutsch-Test für Zuwanderer“ (DTZ). A German school leaving qualification can also serve as a certificate of German ability.
For naturalisation (getting German citizenship)
In addition to a certificate proving sufficient German language knowledge, you have to prove knowledge about the legal & societal rules and living conditions in Germany. This could be the “Life in Germany” test, for example. This test is the final qualification of the orientation course (part of the »» integration course).
 
 
