Personal Freedom
All adults are allowed to make their own decisions and determine their own lives. It doesn’t matter if you are male or female, young or old, with or without disabilities, or what your skin colour or religious affiliation is.
All human beings are free to do what they want as long as they abide by the law and do not restrict other people's freedoms.
This means, for example:

 All people are allowed to decide what they want to wear. Women may decide whether they want to wear trousers, dresses, long or short skirts, tight or loose clothes, or a headscarf. Men may choose to wear a suit and tie, T-shirt and jeans, turban, hat or grow a beard.
All people are allowed to eat what they want and what they like. The decision whether to eat meat (also pork or beef) is one every person can make on their own. The state enforces no universally valid or religious dietary laws.
The consumption of alcohol is allowed for adults. Children and adolescents are prohibited from drinking alcohol, unless over the age of 16 (wine and beer) or over the age of 18 (spirits).
Every woman and every man is allowed to decide herself or himself whether and whom she or he wants to marry.
Every woman and every man is allowed to divorce.
Unmarried couples are allowed to live together and have children.
Members of different religions and faiths are allowed to marry each other and have children.
 Contraception is allowed for all genders. A person's decision to use contraception must be respected.
Same-sex partnerships are recognised in Germany. Same-sex couples are allowed to marry. The rights of a civil union are similar to those of a heterosexual marriage.
All (adults) decide for themselves how and where they want to live. For non-Germans, this right may be limited until the approval of an asylum application.
Sexual acts among adults are only allowed if there is mutual consent between both partners. Any sexual act with children is prohibited.
Private property is allowed in Germany for every man and woman. People are allowed to own a house or land. Many companies are privately owned.
Women and men have equal inheritance rights.

Important:
Your own freedom ends where it violates the freedom or human dignity of others or violates laws.
