Children's rights
Children and young people have rights. These rights are expressed in the United Nations Convention on Children’s Rights. This applies to all children and young people under the age of 18 in Germany. In addition, there are many other laws in Germany that specifically protect the lives, health and rights of children. Safeguarding children is always the main priority.
This means, for example:

All children have the same rights. No matter where they live, where they come from, the colour of their skin, their parents’ jobs, which language they speak, their religion, their gender, the culture in which they live, whether they have any disabilities, whether they are rich or poor.
Children have the right to a name, a birth certificate, a nationality and a family. If a child is missing any of these things, the state will help them as a general rule.
Children should be able to live with their parents, unless this places them at risk. Parents can and must provide for their children, and protect and encourage their children’s health and well-being.
Children who are refugees have a right to special protection and help.
Children need to be protected in order to grow up safely.
Children can and must go to school. Education is compulsory. Parents must support their children in their schooling. In Germany, school education is free.
Children are entitled to form their own opinions.
By the age of 14 at the latest, children are allowed to decide for themselves whether they want to be part of a religion (and if so, which one).
Children should be able to develop well. Parents are responsible for this. If they need help, the state must help them, for example by providing food, clothing and a place to live.
Children whose parents are not married have the same rights as those who live with married parents.

The following behaviour is not allowed in Germany:

Children must not be neglected or abused.
Children must not be hit or abused physically or psychologically in any way.
Children are not allowed to work before the age of 13. If they are older, they are only allowed to work in a very limited capacity. If they work, it must not negatively affect their health and development.
Children may not be abducted or trafficked.
Sexual activity with children is forbidden.

The city of Munich expressly recognises these children’s rights valid throughout the world and tries to implement them at all levels (unanimous decision of the city council, 2001).
You can find these children’s rights in different languages here: »» German, »» English, »» French, »» Italian, »» Spanish, »» Croatian, »» Polish, »» Rumanian, »» Russian, »» Serbian, »» Turkish, »» Vietnamese, »» Japanese, »» Greek, »» Arabic
Beschwerde- und Ombudsstelle - Büro der Kinderbeauftragten (Office for Complaints and Ombudsman Service - Office of the Child Protection Officer)
We are dedicated to protecting children and their families in a non-partisan (and if desired, anonymous) way. We work with all city authorities and those outside the city. Non-bureaucratic, uncomplicated, child and family-oriented, we look for solutions with those affected. We offer orientation, good tips and reliable information. At the same time, we try to recognise and improve trends, developments and particular needs in Munich from the many cases that we hear about every day.
 Find out more
Who’s it for: Children and teenagers up to 18 years old
All premises have barrier-free access as well as a disabled toilet.
The service is free.
Please make an appointment.
Kinderbeauftragte der Landeshauptstadt München
Prielmeyerstraße 1
80335 Munich
 089/23349745
 kinderbeauftrage.soz@muenchen.de
This text contains information about the following search terms:
Children's rights, UN convention on children's rights, violations of children's rights, complaints, ombudsman 
