Debt advice services
City debtor and insolvency advice service

People who are in debt can get confidential advice with us. We help you to clarify your financial and personal situation, however, we cannot give you any money or organise credit for you. We support you in dealing with creditors, by checking the demands made against you and by preparing and implementing an insolvency procedure. If necessary we help you with your budget planning or referrals for support as well as seizure measures by the creditors. We can only support you in resolving your debt situation if you work with us reliably, honestly and actively.
 Do you need an interpreter for the appointment? Please tell us this when you arrange the appointment and tell us the relevant language so we can organise this. This is a free service for you.
The service is free.
All premises have barrier-free access as well as a disabled toilet.
You can get an appointment at the debt and insolvency advice centre via the relevant  Sozialbürgerhaus (SBH) near your home. It is not possible to register directly with the debt advice centre.
Telephone hotline for general information and concrete questions:
 089/23324353
 schuldnerberatung.soz@muenchen.de
This text contains information about the following search terms:
Private bankruptcy, bailiff, court order, enforcement order, debt collection, insolvency, asset information, P account, bankruptcy, wage garnishment, garnishment, instalment payment, Schufa, enforcement, dunning court, enforcement order, execution court, insolvency court

Youth debt advice - Jugendinformationszentrum (JIZ)

The youth debt advice offered by the Arbeiterwohlfahrt / Deutscher Gewerkschaftsbund offers walk-in consultations in the JIZ every Thursday from 16:00 for young people up to the age of 26 who have a problem with money or debt. In the first consultation, your individual financial situation is clarified and tips on reducing debt and handling money are given. Further consultation appointments can be arranged. As the walk-in consultations are very popular, we advise you to arrive early. If you don’t have any time on Thursdays you can get in touch directly with the Jugendschuldnerberatung (youth debt advisor) of the AWO/DGB in the Gewerkschaftshaus (Schwanthalerstraße 64,  089/51556450).
Who’s it for: adolescents and young adults up to the age of 26 years
Barrier-free access to the building and premises is available.
The service is free.
Jugendinformationszentrum (JIZ)
Sendlinger Straße 7
80331 Munich
 089/55052150
 info@jiz-muenchen.de
 http://www.jiz-muenchen.de
 Thursday 16:00 - 18:00
This text contains information about the following search terms
Finances, debt advice, credit, debt collection, seizure, dunning, dunning process, information, help, youth consultations, youth information, parents, problems
