Forms of protection during the asylum procedure
If you make an application for asylum, you apply to receive protection in Germany and not be deported. The law anticipates several forms of protection. They correspond to different forms of persecution in your home country. In an asylum procedure, we check which forms of protection you can be given depending on your individual situation.
You can find a short overview of the different forms of protection below. Via the links given you can find more detailed information in German, English, Turkish, Russian, French and Arabic.
Entitlement to asylum
According to Art. 16 A of the Grundgesetz (basic law or GG) of the Federal Republic of Germany, people who are politically persecuted receive asylum. This protection status can be given to people who, according to their

Ethnicity
Nationality
Political opinions
Fundamental religious outlook or
Membership of a particular social group (for example on the grounds of their sexual orientation)

would be faced with persecution in their country of origin and, therefore, face serious violations of human rights if they returned.
 Find out more

Protection of refugees
According to the Geneva Convention on Refugees, people are regarded as refugees if they are affected by state or non-state persecution owing to one of the follow characteristics and are outside their country of origin:

Ethnicity
Religion
Nationality
Political opinions
Membership of a particular social group (for example on the grounds of their sexual orientation)

Legal basis: Section 3 par. German Asylum Law (AsylG)
 Find out more

Subsidiary protection
People are entitled to subsidiary protection if they are threatened with serious harm in their country of origin and are not able to utilise the protection of their country of origin. The threat can be from the state or also from a non-state element. Examples include:

Death penalty
Torture
Inhuman or humiliating treatment or punishment
Serious individual danger to life or intactness of a civil person owing to arbitrary violence in an international or internal armed conflict

Legal basis: Section 4 par. 1 German Asylum Law (AsylG)
 Find out more

National deportation ban
A person seeking protection must not be deported if

the deportation means breaking the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Basic freedoms (EMRK) or
there is a significant concrete danger to body, life or freedom in the destination country.

Legal basis: Section 60 par. 5 German Residence Act (AufenthG)., Section 60 par. 7 German Residence Act (AufenthG).
 Find out more
