Levels of language ability
There are different levels of language ability. The levels used in language and integration courses correspond to the Common European Framework:
Language level A: basic language skills
Language level B: independent language skills (necessary for training or work)
Language level C: proficient language skills (necessary for higher education and certain professions)
There are even more sub-divisions in the levels:
A1: Beginner
A2: Basic knowledge
B1: Advanced language skills
B2: Independent language skills
C1: Expert language skills
C2: Approaching native speaker proficiency
And within these levels there are further differentiations (A1/1, A1/2, A2/1, A2/2, etc.)
In detail, the six levels mean:
A1: Beginner
You can understand and use simple words and sentences.
You can introduce yourself and others. For example: My name is Maria. I am 30 years old. I live in Germany. This is my boyfriend. His name is Paul.
You can ask personal questions. For example: What is your name? Where do you live?
You can answer questions. For example: How are you? I’m doing well.
You can talk to a person if they speak slowly and clearly.
A2: Basic knowledge
You can understand full sentences and frequently used words. You can understand words for the following topics: Information about you as a person and your family, shopping, work and your surroundings.
You can express yourself in simple, everyday situations. You can describe where you come from, what kind of education you have and your surroundings.
B1: Advanced language skills
You can understand a lot if it’s about work, school or leisure, for example. You can express yourself when travelling. You can speak about topics you are familiar with and your personal interests. You can report on experiences you have had. You can describe your dreams, hopes and goals. You can provide brief reasons or explanations for your plans and opinions.
B2: Independent language skills
You can understand the most important parts of complex texts on both specific and abstract topics. You can even understand expert discussions in topics you know well.
You can express yourself spontaneously and fluently. It is possible for you to have a normal conversation with
native speakers without a great deal of effort from either party. You can express yourself on a variety of topics clearly and in detail. You can articulate an opinion on a question you have been asked. You can state the pros and cons of various possibilities.
C1: Expert language skills
You can understand much of longer, complex texts. You can also grasp implicit meaning in the text.
You can express yourself spontaneously and fluently. You rarely have to search for the right word. You can use the target language effectively and flexibly in your social and professional life and/or in a vocational training programme or at university. You can articulate your opinion on complex topics clearly, extensively and in a well-structured way. In doing so, you can appropriately use various methods of referring to the text.
C2: (Approaching) native speaker proficiency
You can understand practically everything you read or hear without effort.
You can summarise information from a variety of written and oral sources. You can reproduce reasoning and explanations in a cohesive way. You can express yourself spontaneously, precisely and very fluently. You can make subtle nuances of meaning clear, even for more complex issues.
