Taxes and social security payments
Every employee in Germany pays part of their wages as taxes and social contributions. Self-employed persons must also pay taxes.
Income tax
Income tax is a contribution to financing federal, state and local government spending. With the money from taxes, streets and schools are built or social benefits are financed, for example.

If you have an employer (i.e. are “angestellt”), you will receive the net sum of your salary from your employer – in other words, your taxes have already been deducted.
If you are self-employed, you need to calculate your taxes yourself.

Tax ID number
All working persons receive a “Tax ID number” when they start work. The tax ID is a 11-digit number and is used for income tax. It is valid for the whole of your life. Children born in Germany receive a letter with their personal tax ID within three months after the birth; this is required to apply for child benefit (Kindergeld) for example.
If you work in Germany, you will need the number at various times, for example to give to your employer. If you do not know the number, you can ask for it personally at the Meldebehörde (registration office) or in writing from the Bundesamt für Steuern (federal tax office).
Tax return
In the annual tax return, you can claim various expenses from the Finanzamt (tax office) to reduce the amount of tax you pay. You can receive refunds or you may have to pay additional payments to the Finanzamt (tax office). Many people are obliged to complete a tax return; it is best to ask the Finanzamt (tax office) if this applies to you.
If you need help with your tax return, you should contact your local taxpayer’s advice centre. The Finanzamt (tax office) may also be able to help if you have any questions.
Social security payments
The contributions towards social care that working persons have to pay from their monthly gross salary are known as social security payments – they are compulsory by law and are calculated automatically by the employer. Part of the social insurance is also paid by the employer.
The social security payments finance the German social insurance system. If people can’t find work, or are no longer able to work, their key living costs will still be covered. Ultimately, the social security payments ensure that everyone is insured – if you become unemployed, for example and have paid unemployment insurance for a certain time, you are entitled to Arbeitslosengeld I (unemployment benefit I). With your monthly contribution to pension insurance, you also obtain the entitlement to a state pension when you get older.
The contributions to social insurance are made up of payments towards:

Pension insurance
Unemployment insurance
Health insurance
Nursing care insurance

The amount depends on your individual income. The contributions are automatically deducted from your gross salary.
There are exceptions for foreign workers, for example if they are sent by a foreign company to Germany, work in several countries or are self-employed or affected by other exemptions.
To receive a permanent residence, it’s a requirement that you have paid contributions for at least 60 months into pension insurance. This also applies to self-employed people. There are also exemptions here.
Social security number
Deutsche Rentenversicherung (the German state pension insurance company) automatically sends you your social security number the first time you take up employment in Germany.
If you lose this number you can request to have it sent to you again:
Telephone number of the Deutsche Rentenversicherung:
 0800/10004800 (free from a German landline)
 Deutsche Rentenversicherung
