Startklar - transition from school to training for young refugees
The most important thing in our Startklar course is that you get an apprenticeship position!
We will get to know many different professions. As part of an internship, on practical days in the workshop or as part of a cooking project , you can try out many new things.
Of course, we also learn maths and German. This is important preparation for the Berufsschule (vocational school). And here you have the option of taking the telc-B1 exam or even the telc-B2 exam.
Computer skills, digital learning, and virtual teaching are becoming more and more important. We support you and make sure you know your way around a computer.
Do you want to do the Quali (secondary school leaving certificate)? Then we have a special service for you. In a small group we will prepare you for the Quali exam subjects: Math, German, GSE (history, social studies, geography), project work and sports or computer science.
You will also receive intensive, socio-educational support from us in your search for a suitable apprenticeship position.
Startklar is right for you if:
·         you are looking for an apprenticeship,
·         you want to prepare for an apprenticeship/Berufsschule,
·         you don’t yet know which apprenticeship profession is right for you,
·         you want to try out lots of things and so would like to do different internships, or
·         You want to expand your knowledge to take the Quali or Mittelschulabschluss (basic secondary school certificate).
Who’s it for: for young refugees up to around 25 years of age who have not yet been able to start an apprenticeship after finishing Mittelschule or the BIK-Klasse.
Access requirements:
·         Young refugees up to approx. 25 years of age
·         With a Mittelschulabschluss (basic secondary school certificate) or comparable level of knowledge
·         At least A2 German skills
·         Mastery of basic arithmetic operations
·         Pass in the placement test (German and mathematics)
·         Strong motivation to start an apprenticeship
The course runs from mid-October to August.
The next course starts on 11/10/2021 and runs until 29/07/2022. Teaching is from Monday to Friday from 10:15 to 15:15
Max. 22 participants
The course is free.
All premises have barrier-free access as well as a disabled toilet.
 Schertlinstr. 2a, 81379 München
 089/748088953
 plana@initiativgruppe.de
 Please make an appointment.
 https://berufliche-bildung.initiativgruppe.de/berufliche-bildung/plan-a/st%C3%A4dtisch-finanzierte-deutschkurse-f%C3%BCr-junge-fl%C3%BCchtlinge-(sfk-j).html
 
This text contains information about the following search terms:
apprenticeship, job, transition from school to apprenticeship, school leaving certificate, career orientation, application training, apprenticeship position, internship
