Visiting a doctor
Family doctors and specialist doctors
If you are ill, see your family doctor. You can choose your own doctor.
General practitioners (“family doctors”) are usually open all day on Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday. Doctors’ practices are often closed on Wednesday and Friday afternoons. The opening hours are decided by the doctors themselves. So you need to make an appointment if you need to see a family doctor.
Your family doctor will carry out important check-ups and is your first point of contact when you are ill. They also decide what medication you need and whether you need to see a specialist.
If necessary, your family doctor will refer you to a specialist who can carry out specific tests.

Paediatricians
Children are usually examined by paediatricians. Regular check-ups and vaccinations by the paediatrician are important for the health of each child. The preventative check-ups, which are compulsory by law in Bavaria, are known as “U-Untersuchungen”. They take place when the child is a certain age and are always free. Please ask a paediatrician for information about the “U-Untersuchungen”.

Gynaecologists (doctors for women’s health)
It is important for women to be regularly examined by a gynaecologist. Preventative check-ups are carried out which can detect illnesses early enough to treat them. You can also discuss contraception there.

Dentists
If you have toothache, you should go to a dentist.

Information about medical care under the health insurance scheme
When you go to the doctor, you will need to show your health insurance card. With this, most check-ups are free. You will have to pay for certain screenings yourself, though. You will pay a portion of the cost yourself for therapies (e.g. physiotherapy) and supplemental products (for example bandages). People who have low incomes can apply to have their portion of the cost waived. Please ask your health insurance company about this.
The cost of basic dental treatment is paid by the health insurance company. If a tooth needs to be repaired or replaced, though, you must pay part of the cost.
The cost of hospital treatment is also paid by the health  insurance company. However, a hospital fee of 10 EUR is charged for each day spent in hospital. People who have low incomes can also be exempted from paying this.
