
Personal application for asylum
A personal application for asylum is made after you have registered and been housed in the reception centre.
People who are housed in the reception centre in Munich receive an appointment to make their application at the Bundesamt für Migration und Flüchtlinge – Munich branch:
Bundesamt für Migration und Flüchtlinge (BAMF)Munich branch (centre for hearings)Streitfeldstraße 3981673 Munich 089/620290Fax 09119439999848 service@bamf.bund.de
There is a translator available for this appointment. You make your application for asylum and receive important information on the asylum procedure.
After you have made the application for asylum, you receive an »» Aufenthaltsgestattung (temporary residence permit). In Germany the Aufenthaltsgestattung (temporary residence permit) is the proof of your legal stay in Germany and your asylum application.
While you are living in the reception centre in Munich, responsibility for issues relating to foreigners and legal questions relating to your stay is held by:
Regierung von OberbayernZentrale AusländerbehördeHofmannstr. 5181379 Munich 089/21760

Residence obligation
With your Aufenthaltsgestattung (temporary residence permit), you have limitations on where you can travel. This means that you are only allowed to stay in the district where your accommodation is located. For Munich, this is the city area of Munich. If you have to temporarily leave the area you need permission from the Bundesamt für Migration und Flüchtlinge (BAMF) within the first 3 months, after this you need the permission from the Ausländerbehörde (Immigration Office). These limitations on where you can travel can apply for varying periods of time, depending on your country of origin and the progress of your asylum procedure.

Change of address – important note!
If, as an asylum-seeker, you have received permission or are obliged to change address within Munich or move to another city during your asylum procedure, you yourself have to tell the Bundesamt für Migration und Flüchtlinge – BAMF about your new address.
 
