
Residence status – migration / asylum
Everyone who comes to Germany to apply for asylum receives a residence document. It’s often referred to as an “Ausweis”. Your residence document provides details on the status of your asylum procedure and whether restrictions apply for any potential employment (“when am I allowed to work?”).
There are five types of document:
1. Ankunftsnachweis (proof of arrival)
Status: Asylum seekersBackground: Issued to people who have requested asylum. Valid from the time of request for asylum and the official application for asylum at the Bundesamt für Migration und Flüchtlinge (BAMF) (Federal Office for Migration and Refugees).

2. Aufenthaltsgestattung (temporary residence permit)
Status: Asylum seekersBackground: Issued to foreigners who have officially applied for asylum until their application has been considered. The Bundesamt für Migration und Flüchtlinge – BAMF (Federal Office for Migration and Refugees) makes the decision to accept or reject your application. If the application for asylum is rejected for being unfounded, it is possible to appeal the decision before an administrative court. You are allowed to remain in Germany until the administrative court has reached its decision.
The ID card for asylum seekers includes conditions of employment, residence and possibly territorial limitations.

If you require a special permit to take on employment, this permit can be applied for at your relevant »» Ausländerbehörde (Immigration Office) (by your employer or you yourself)
Responsible for work placements: »» Agentur für Arbeit (Employment Agency)
Responsible for social benefits: »» Sozialamt (Social Welfare Office)


3. Fiktionsbescheinigung (probationary residence permit)
Status: Recognised refugeesBackground: Transition document valid for the period after your application for asylum has been granted until you receive your residence permit (Erlaubnisfiktion) or during a period of review or extension of documentation (Fortgeltungsfiktion).

4. Aufenthaltserlaubnis (residence permit)
Status: Recognised refugeesBackground: Positive decision on the application for asylum
The Aufenthaltserlaubnis (residence permit) grants temporary residence. It is issued in accordance with the Residence Act. For refugees, there are various types of residence permits for humanitarian reasons.

This opens up the option for a future indefinite right of residence (Niederlassungserlaubnis - settlement permit)
Unrestricted access to the labour market
Responsibility for work placements and social benefits: »» Jobcenter


5. Duldung (temporary postponement of deportation)
Status: Geduldete (People with temporary postponement of deportation)Background: negative decision on the application for asylum
A “Duldung” is a temporary postponement of deportation. This document is only granted if deportation is impossible for legal, practical, humanitarian or personal reasons.

General regulation for temporary legal suspension of deportation for certain groups by order of the highest state authority for a maximum duration of 3 months (“Abschiebungsstopp” - “suspension of deportation”)
A work permit is generally always necessary and can be requested from the relevant »» Ausländerbehörde (Immigration Office) (by your employer or you yourself)
Responsible for work placements: »» Agentur für Arbeit (Employment Agency)
Responsible for social benefits: »» Sozialamt (Social Welfare Office)


