
Bringing family members to join you
For people who already have their residence permit and are living permanently in Germany there is the possibility of bringing marriage partners or civil partnership as well as your own underage children to join you in Germany.
The rules and requirements for this depend on which group of people you belong to:

Citizens of an EU member country
Citizens of a country in the European Economic Area (Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein), citizens of Switzerland
Citizens of the countries: Australia, Israel, Japan, Canada, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, New Zealand, United States of America, Republic of Korea, Brazil, El Salvador
Citizens of third party countries
Persons who have applied for political asylum in Germany and have received protection status:


Recognition as a person entitled to asylum according to 16a Grundgesetz (basic law or GG) (legal right, please note: Deadline rule, see below!)
Granting of refugee status according to the Geneva Convention on Refugees according to § 3 German Asylum Law (AsylG) (legal right, please note: Deadline rule, see below!)
Recognition of subsidiary protection according to § 4 German Asylum Law (AsylG) (legal right, please note: Deadline rule, see below!)

Family reunion is not possible for people with a Duldung (temporary postponement of deportation).
As a general rule:

both marital partners must be at least 18 years old
the marriage or civil partnership must have already taken place in the country of origin

All further requirements vary according to which group of persons you belong to. We recommend that you get advice at a  Contact point for migration advice (MBE) or from the  Ausländerbehörde (Immigration Office).
Deadline rule
Important note: For persons who have received protection status in an asylum procedure (see list above) a deadline ruleapplies: the requirements that normally apply such as confirmation of living costs and housing will be waived if the application for family reunion is made within three months after the indisputable recognition to the relevant authorities (foreign representation in the country where your family members are staying and the Ausländerbehörde (Immigration Office) - in München).
You can find further information on family reunion for persons with protection status on the website of the  Auswärtiges Amt (German, English, Arabic) and the München city administration (Münchner Stadtverwaltung):  Aufenthaltserlaubnis nach § 25 Abs. 2 Satz 1, Alternative 1 AufenthG und Reiseausweis Aufenthaltserlaubnis nach § 25 Abs. 2 Satz 1, Alternative 2 AufenthG
All other groups can find further information  here.
 
