Access to sponsored housing / social housing
If you are allowed to stay permanently in Germany through EU citizenship, Aufenthaltserlaubnis - (residence permit), Niederlassungserlaubnis (settlement permit), have your main residence in Germany and your income does not exceed a certain limit, you are entitled to move into a subsidised apartment (so-called social apartment). In order to receive an apartment in this way, you have to make an application for registration at the Amt für Wohnen und Migration (Office for Housing and Migration).
You can submit the application online via the internet platform  SOWON (Soziales Wohnen Online, Social Housing Online). In the last step, you will see which documents you need for the application. You can upload the documents directly to SOWON.Here you can find a how-to video regarding the “SOWON online housing application (Sowon Wohnungsantrag online)”.
Alternatively, you can also submit the application on paper. You can find the application form on the  Internet or at these sites: Infothek (document resource centre) in the Amt für Wohnen und Migration (Office for Housing and Migration), Werinherstraße 87 (House 24) Infotheks in the Sozialbürgerhäuser City information in the Rathaus (city hall) Rathauspforte (city hall reception area)
You can submit the paper application by post or drop it in the letterbox in person:Amt für Wohnen und Migration, Social Housing ProvisionWerinherstraße 8981541 Munich
Documents required:

Proof of income (e.g. salary/wage slips for the last 3 months, SGB II/ SGB XII notification (all pages), last tax assessment)
Identity card, passport or residence permit
Rental contract or proof of current living situation
If applicable, confirmation of pregnancy (Mutterpass or medical certificate)
If applicable, medical certificate
if applicable, proof of custody or declaration of child(ren) in separate households

Searching for somewhere to live:
Once all requirements have been checked, you will be registered for a subsidised apartment (notification). In the notification, your individual space requirements and the urgency of your housing search are determined. You can then click on  SOWON to search for apartments.
There you will see offers for apartments that suit your household (for example, in terms of apartment size and income level). In the offer you will find all important information about the apartment (size, position, amount of rent). The offers are usually available online for 14 days. You can apply for up to three apartments at the same time.
Costs:
No fees are charged for processing the housing application. If an apartment is successfully arranged, a fee of 25 euros is charged for the confirmation.
Contact & more information:
You can find more information on the  website of the Amt für Wohnen und Migration (Office for Housing and Migration). The most frequently asked questions about the application are answered in the  SOWON Help section. You can reach the Customer Centre Housing via a  contact form.