Trivia about the city
Munich is the capital city of the federal state of Bavaria, officially known as “Freistaat Bayern”. With 1.56 million residents, München is the third-largest city in Germany.
Munich has a worldwide reputation as a centre for the arts, culture and science. The city has a lively night-life and an excellent public transport system. Residents of Munich particularly love their numerous green areas such as the English Garden, the Isar meadows and the gardens of the palaces as well as its closeness to the Alps and the lakes of Upper Bavaria.
Munich is economically very successful: A low unemployment rate and wide spectrum of economic sectors make Munich very attractive for many people who find interesting jobs in companies and research institutes or who come here to study at one of the renowned higher education institutions.
Munich was founded in 1156 with the construction of an important bridge over the Isar River. The name comes from “apud Munichen” – by the Monks – because a Benedictine Monastery used to be located here. From 1255 onwards, Munich was the royal residence of the Wittelsbach dynasty, whose prestigious buildings still characterise the city today, for over 700 years. The most well-known member of the Bavarian royal family is definitely King Ludwig II, who was born in  Schloss Nymphenburg, the München summer residence of the Wittelsbach dynasty.
There are many museums in Munich. One of the oldest and most well-known is the  Deutsches Museum, that focuses on history and the future of technology.  BMW World and the  BMW Museum attract visitors from all over the world. The  NS-Dokumentationszentrum documents Munich’s history during the time of the National Socialist dictatorship and is a central place of learning and memorial.
As well as the city’s rich culture, Munich residents love sport. The venues of the 1972 Summer Olympic Games in the  Olympia Park are still used intensively. Constructed for the 2006 Football World Cup, the  Allianz Arena is regarded as one of the most exceptional stadiums in Europe: The outer shell and stadium roof are made of lozenge-shaped air cushions that illuminate during matches of FC Bayern in the football club’s colours of red and white. Important occasions are often marked with a special illumination concept: For example, the arena glowed in the blue and yellow colours of the European flag to celebrate Europe Day; on the Irish St Patrick’s Day, it glowed in green and to celebrate Christopher Street Day, in the colours of the rainbow.
The München  Oktoberfest – the largest public festival in the word – visited by six million people annually, is world famous. Just as good, but a bit more peaceful: enjoy München’s famous beer under the chestnut trees in one of the many beer gardens. These have a tradition in Munich that dates back over 200 years and are regarded as the epitome of the Bavarian way of life.
