
Benefits from the Job Centre
Who for: Households that receive financial support from the Jobcentre.
Rent and heating
Costs are covered if they are reasonable (§22 SGB II). In the case of the City of Munich, fixed  rent ceilings apply. For households with seven or more persons, the rent ceiling includes 15 m² and 270 Euros per additional person.
The amounts for the rent ceiling refer to the gross cold rent.  A gross cold rent is made up as follows:

Net cold rent = basic rent without operating costsplus
cold operating costs = for example, the costs for refuse collection, (cold) water, staircase lighting, street cleaning and property tax.

Heating and hot water costs are taken into account separately.
Your benefits officer will explain to you how to proceed in case of unreasonable rent costs.
The "" Office for Housing and Migration of the state capital will advise you on all questions concerning housing in Munich.
If you are threatened with homelessness, we will look for a solution with you at  Sozialbürgerhaus.
Moving
If you want to move, your case worker must check whether the move is necessary and the costs of the new flat are reasonable before signing the tenancy agreement.
The following evidence and documents are required for the check:

Written justification of the reason for the move (if necessary, appropriate evidence proving an important reason).
Unsigned tenancy agreement or an offer of a flat showing all costs related to renting the flat (for example basic rent, ancillary costs and heating costs, deposit).

An important reason exists, for example, if:

the move remedies a threatened or existing homelessness;
the move ends or avoids the need for assistance;
the move is necessary in order to take up or continue employment subject to social security contributions at a greater distance (commute to work, depending on working hours, more than 2-2.5 hours total travel time).

Attention: If you rent a flat without the Job Centre's consent, you may suffer financial disadvantages.
