Housing - Refuge / Asylum
Unaccompanied minors
If you are under 18, you will usually find out during the first two weeks in which town/city in Germany you can live on a long-term basis. This decision is regulated by law and is not decided by you but by the government. If you are ill or if someone from your family is already living here, you may be able to stay in Munich. Tell your supervisors if you have family in Germany. They will help you to get in touch with your relatives and the Jugendamt (Youth Welfare Office) there.
At your new location you will live with other young people in one house. Adults are available to support you 24 hours a day.

Housing for unaccompanied adolescents
The department for supervising and housing unaccompanied adolescents at the Amt für Wohnen und Migration (Office for Housing and Migration) takes care of single young refugees. The aim is to place you in training and jobs as well as permanent accommodation so that you have good prerequisites for integration into our society.We find placements in shared apartments or a housing project.
 Find out more
Who’s it for: Teenagers and young adults up to 27 years of age who are in training or school. Youths and teenagers with a Duldung (temporary postponement of deportation) or Gestattung (permit) can also register with us.
All premises have barrier-free access as well as a disabled toilet.
Amt für Wohnen und MigrationWerinherstraße 89, Haus 3481541 Munich info.warteliste.soz@muenchen.deTelephone consultation hours: Wednesday morning,  0152/56651081

Adults / families during the asylum procedure
During the asylum procedure you – and your family, where applicable – are fundamentally obliged to live in asylum accommodation. After your arrival you will first be housed in a so-called reception centre where you should stay maximum six months. During this time, we will decide where your asylum procedure will be carried out and where your later place of residence will be during the asylum procedure. In the reception centre you will receive care in the form of non-cash benefits. You will also have a health examination. The reception centre in Munich is operated by the Upper Bavaria district council.
From the reception centre all persons will be distributed to different towns and communities in Germany by the Regierungsaufnahmestelle (RASt) office. The distribution takes place according to a pre-defined scheme. The accommodation management will tell you about this.
If you are “transferred” to Munich, you will either live in shared accommodation (operated by the Upper Bavaria district council) or in decentralised accommodation (operator is the federal capital city of Munich). As a general rule, you must live there until the completion of your asylum procedure.
During the time of your asylum procedure, you need to follow other requirements such as the “condition of fixed abode” or “residence obligation”. You will receive information about this at the advice centre in your accommodation or at the Ausländerbehörde (Immigration Office).
If your asylum procedure ends with a recognition, you are obliged to look for an apartment and leave the asylum accommodation. However you can stay in the asylum accommodation while you are looking for an apartment.