Self-help centre
The Self-help centre Munich is an advice centre for self-help groups and all those who are looking for a self-help group or would like to set one up.
What is a self-help group?Self-help means:People with the same issue or problem form a group or an association (German, also “Initiative”). The members of these groups and associations would like to support each other and other people with this issue or problem.The activities and aims can be important only for the self-help groups or associations. However, they can also be important for a larger community, such as other people with the same problem or the neighbourhood, the city district or the area.Self-help groups can be organised in very different ways.Working in a self-help group or association is normally voluntary and unpaid. The groups or associations are independent. They decide themselves what they do and how they do it. All members can express their opinion. There is no leadership coming from an outside source.Sometimes, specialists can lead a self-help group or association. They decide what to do and how to do it, and they are paid for this. This is then referred to as a professionally led group or association that belongs to the social work or therapy treatment sector. During therapy, people with problems receive help from specialists.The self-help groups can use the premises and tools (e.g. computers and internet) of the Self-help centre.
Contact us for answers to the following questions, among others:

What self-help groups are there?
Which self-help group is the right one for me?
What exactly defines a self-help group?
Can a self-help group help me?
Could a different service help me better?
What is on offer in Munich?
When and where does my self-help group meet?
How can I set up a self-help group?

You can contact us in person, by phone or by email. We provide advice in confidence and, upon request, anonymously.
 Interpreters on request
Barrier-free access to the building and premises is available.
Self-help centre MunichWestendstraße 6880339 Munich 089/53295611 info@shz-muenchen.de www.shz-muenchen.de Monday and Tuesday 14:00 - 18:00Wednesday and Thursday 10:00 - 13:00