
Dual education
In Germany, it is a great advantage to have a vocational qualification. People with vocational qualifications earn more money over the course of their lives, are less likely to become unemployed and less likely to have fixed-term contracts than people who look for work without a vocational qualification.
In Germany, there are two types of vocational training:
School-based training at a vocational school ("" School-based training).Students only attend school and learn everything there.
Dual systemStudents learn both at a vocational school (about one third of the time) and in a training company (about two thirds of the time). In this way, you learn theory and practice at the same time. During the training, you earn a fixed monthly salary.
This video clearly explains dual training:  Duale Ausbildung.Click here for the video in  Arabic,  Dari,  Tigrinya,  Ukrainian.Click here for the video in sign language .
Dual training is mostly found in commercial and industrial-technical professions. Depending on the type of occupation you want to learn, you should contact the appropriate office:
Chamber of Crafts for Munich and Upper Bavaria (HWK).
The HWK is responsible for skilled trades such as baker, bricklayer, painter or hairdresser. It provides support in finding an apprenticeship or an introductory qualification that can precede an apprenticeship. There is a special offer for young people with a migration background who want to start a craft apprenticeship. You can find more information here .
Max-Joseph-Strasse 480333 Munich 089/5119372 aqflue@hwk-muenchen.de Website of the HWK
Chamber of Industry and Commerce for Munich and Upper Bavaria (IHK)
The IHK is responsible for commercial and technical professions. The IHK integration team supports refugees and migrants before, during and after training. The team advises on all questions related to training: for example, challenges at vocational school or in the company, exam preparation, rights and obligations during training. The individual meetings take place online and are free of charge. You can find more information here: .
A short film about dual training (in German) can be found  here.
The online brochure"Endlich in Ausbildung" provides tips for starting training (in German).
IHK Munich and Upper Bavaria, Campus DOrleansstraße 10-1281669 Munich 089/51160 integration@muenchen.ihk.de Website of the IHK
