
Residence permit, German courses, childcare, school, work, apprenticeship training, university studies
If you work, study or want to complete an apprenticeship in Germany, you need a residence permit. A place of residence is required for a residence permit. If you know where you will be living in Munich (not temporary accommodation), please register your residence at the Bürgerbüro / Sozialbürgerhaus (SBH). You must arrange an appointment for this online. Your current address determines which SBH is responsible for you. Enter your address here to find out which SBH is the right one for you. All SBHs are open Monday to Friday from 8 - 12.
Residence permit according to Section 24 of the German Residence Act (AufenthG):
The residence permit contains the remark “employment permitted”. This means that any employment, self-employment or paid employment is possible.While your application is being processed, you will receive a “probationary residence permit”. This also contains the remark “employment permitted”.
There are two different ways to apply for a residence permit: by post or by online application:

By post: Documents required:- Your name and surname- Date of arrival- Copy of your identification document (scanned or photographed)- Copy of the registration letter sent to the Regierung von Oberbayern (if you have not yet been registered, you will receive an appointment for registration after you have applied for your residence permit)- If possible, the completed and signed application for a residence permit for refugees from Ukraine (fill out a separate application for each family member)Send these documents to the following address:Kreisverwaltungsreferat (KVR)AusländerangelegenheitenRuppertstraße 1980466 Munich
By online application: fill out this form:in German: Aufenthaltserlaubnis für Kriegsflüchtlinge aus der Ukrainein English: Residence permit for war refugees from Ukraine

If you have any questions:  ukraine.kvr@muenchen.de
German courses:
If you already have a residence permit in accordance with Section 24 of the German Residence Act (AufenthG) or a probationary residence permit, you can apply to the Bundesamt für Migration und Flüchtlinge (Federal Office for Migration and Refugees, abbreviated BAMF) to take a German/Integration Course (IK).
To do this, fill in the application form for an integration course.Completion instructions:· Under “Reason for entering Germany” please click/check “Other reasons” and write “Ukraine war”.· Please state the reason you are applying for admission to an integration course; for example, language acquisition for integration into the labour market.· You do not have to click/check the exemption from costs; this is done automatically if you have a residence permit in accordance with Section 24 of the German Residence Act (AufenthG) or a probationary residence permit (Fiktionsbescheinigung) .
Send the completed application to the following address:Bundesamt für Migration und FlüchtlingeReferat 53 AStreitfeldstraße 3981673 Munich
Then you can look for an integration course:  Integration course - search
Advice on enrolment and application can be obtained from the immigration counselling centres for adults (Migrationsberatungsstellen für Erwachsene or MBE) or Youth Immigration Services (Jugendmigrationsdienste or JMD): mbeon migmuenchen
If you do not yet have a residence permit or probationary residence permit, you can contact »» IBZ Sprache und Beruf: ibz-sprache.soz@muenchen.de Website
Recognition of foreign qualifications:
Have you learned or studied a profession in Ukraine that you would like to practice in Germany?The »» Servicestelle zur Erschließung ausländischer Qualifikationen can check if this can be recognised in Germany or classified as equivalent.
Childcare and school
 Information for the federal capital city of Munich
Information on childcare can be obtained from the Parents Advice Service: kita-eltern@muenchen.de 089/23396771
Compulsory education for Ukrainian pupils begins on 13 September 2022 (school year 2022/23). This means that all children and young people aged between 6 and 15 must register with their local schools. Distance learning at a school in Ukraine is not a substitute for compulsory education in Germany.Information about school attendance is available from Bildungsberatung International: Monday to Friday 9:00 - 12:00 and 13:00 - 16:00 schulberatung-international@muenchen.de 089/23326875 089/233524227 ( Advice in Ukrainian and Russian)
Support and advice in finding work and training:
Agentur für Arbeit (Employment Agency) Munich: Employment agency Muenchen.ofis.ukrayina@arbeitsagentur.de 0911/1787915 (This number is not free to call) Monday to Thursday from 08:00 to 16:00 and Friday from 08:00 to 13:00 German, Ukrainian and Russian
Infozentrum Migration und Arbeit (Information center for migration and work):- Active support for integration into the labor market- Labor and social law information (e.g. in the case of termination without notice, outstanding wages, etc.)- German course- Application trainingThe offer is free.For whom: Refugees from Ukraine Ukrainian, Bulgarian, Romanian, Turkish, English and FrenchBarrier-free access to the building and premises and a disabled toilet are available. Sonnenstraße 12a, 80331 Munich 089/51114642 jobmatching@awo-muenchen.de Every Friday from 9:30 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. and 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m website
»» Preparation for work - find an apprenticeship
»» Work, apprenticeship training
»» Job centre
»» Looking for work
Job portals
 Job Aid Ukraine Sprungbrett Into Work UAtalents socialbee
University studies
The International Affairs Office of Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität offers advice to students and academics.Introductory programme for refugees & information on counselling and scholarships 089/21800 Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität MünchenGeschwister-Scholl-Platz 180539 Munich
