Bank account
A Girokonto (checking account) is a personal bank account you can use to make payments via the bank. Your money is available in your checking account at any time.
With a Girokonto you can:

transfer money
receive cashless payments (payments from agencies/authorities/social benefits are often cashless, meaning they are transferred directly to a personal Girokonto)
set up standing orders
use direct debit services
pay cashless with an EC/Maestro card
withdraw money at the bank counter or an ATM
cash cheques
print your bank statements

Important: Make sure that you always have enough money in your bank account.
Tip: different banks offer current accounts with different conditions. Find out exactly how much a Girokonto costs each month and what services the bank offers.
Opening an account
Decide yourself which bank you want to open an account with. Make an appointment to open the account. Please bring your ID card with you as you have to prove your identity. If your asylum procedure is ongoing or if you have tolerated status and no ID, you also usually have the right to open a Girokonto. Your official proof of arrival or toleration certificate is then enough to use as ID. You can find a form to apply for a basic Girokonto on the website of the  Verbraucherzentrale. This also has more information, such as what you can do if your application to open an account is rejected.Important: if you do not speak German or English, please take an interpreter along with you.
Important tips about using your EC card

Once your bank account has been opened, you will receive an EC debit card and a four-digit PIN code. Sign the back of the EC card and memorise your PIN code. You will need the PIN code for cashless payments and to withdraw money from ATMs. Make sure you keep your card and your PIN code separate!
If you want to withdraw cash, you should use the ATMs of the bank where you have your account because this doesn’t cost anything.
If you enter the PIN code at the ATM incorrectly three times, the EC card will be confiscated by the machine and blocked. If this happens, ask your bank for a new EC card.
If you lose your EC card or it is stolen, you have to block it immediately so no-one else can use it. You can do this 24 hours a day via  116116. Tell them your sort code and your account number. Then ask your bank for a new EC card.
If you need assistance using the EC card correctly, ask your bank or friends who know about living in Germany.


 