Munich’s railway stations / ZOB / airport
Munich Hauptbahnhof
Located in the centre of the city, the Hauptbahnhof (main railway station) has more main platforms than any other German railway station: 32 above ground and several underground. All long-distance trains start from the main hall. Regional trains in the direction of Salzburg and Mühldorf normally depart from platforms 5 to 10 – the so-called Holzkirchner Bahnhof. Trains in the direction of Lindau, Lenggreis or Tegernsee normally depart from platforms 27 to 36 – the so-called Starnberger Bahnhof. Around 350,000 travellers per day use the terminus station, which also offers a customer centre for local public transport, shopping possibilities and food stands.
Munich Ostbahnhof
The Ostbahnhof (east railway station) is located in Haidhausen. It also has long-distance trains and is an important transfer station between regional trains as well as S-Bahn and U-Bahn. The ExpressBus X30 also stops there and offers good connections to Giesing and Sendling. Thanks to the wide range of restaurants, bars and clubs in the vicinity, the Ostbahnhof is also important for fans of night-life.
Bahnhof München-Pasing
The western long-distance railway station with 14 platforms is an essential element of the transport network. Around 85,000 people use it every day.
The Zentrale Omnibusbahnhof München (ZOB)
This is actually a bus station and an important transport hub for national and international connections from Munich. With 29 bus terminals and many shops, the ZOB seems like an airport.
Munich Airport
The S-Bahn lines 1 and 8 travel directly to the airport and the visitors’ park. To get to your plane in good time, you should plan an S-Bahn travel time of around 40 minutes when organising your journey.
Another alternative is to travel with the Lufthansa Airport Bus. It leaves from the stops Hauptbahnhof (ca. 45 minutes travel time) and Schwabing Nord /Nordfriedhof (ca. 30 minutes travel time). However there can be delays depending on the traffic. There is more detailed information  here. MVV tickets are not valid here.
If you absolutely have to travel by car, you can use a car-sharing vehicle to the airport. All vehicles from DriveNow and car2go can be parked at the airport and hired.