Cycling
Renting and hiring a bicycle
In München, there are many ways to hire a bicycle easily. One of them is  MVG Rad, the bicycle hire system of the city of München –  a perfect supplement to U-Bahn, bus and tram. You have to be at least 18 years old and have downloaded the free app “MVG more”.
If you know that you will be living in Munich for a longer period, it is worth buying a bicycle. This is cheaper than travelling with public transport.
Learning to cycle
Here you can find  cycling courses given by the ADFC - Allgemeiner Deutscher Fahrrad-Club.
Cycling courses for female migrants:Do you want to learn how to ride a bike? Come to our cycling courses. Donna Mobile offers cycling courses for female migrants in partnership with the Sportamt (Sports Office) of the city of München. There are courses for beginners and for advanced cyclists. It’s also possible to go on cycling trips with the (female) course leaders. Donna Mobile also offers you the possibility to train as a cycling trainer yourself.
Who’s it for: Women with a migration background, with or without previous experience
Annually from: April – October
Places are limited.
The service costs:Basic course 50€Advanced course 30€Trip 20€Training as a cycling course teacher, 4 modules, 50€
 Our course teachers are multilingual. The courses can be offered in the following languages: German, Turkish, Russian, Croatian, English
Barrier-free access to the building and premises is available.
Landsberger Straße 45a80339 Munich 089/505005 info@donnamobile.org www.donnamobile.org Monday 09:00 - 16:00Tuesday 09:00 - 16:00Wednesday 09:00 - 16:00Thursday 09:00 - 16:00Friday 09:00 - 16:00
This text contains information about the following search terms:Cycling course, learn how to ride a bike, cycling course for migrant women 
Important traffic regulations for cyclists


Find out about the general traffic regulations in Germany, particularly the right of way.


Always cycle on the right side of the road.


Do not cycle side by side; cycle one behind the other.


If there is a cycle path, you must ride on it (only on the right side of the road in the direction of travel).


Only children up to 11 years old are allowed to cycle on footpaths.


It is dangerous if you end up on the tram lines with your tyres. You can fall over.

A helmet protects you from serious head injuries if you fall.
You are not allowed to use your mobile phone while you are cycling. You may have to pay a fine if you do this.
You are not allowed to cycle when under the influence of alcohol. You can lose your car driving licence because of this.

You can find traffic regulations for cyclists in different languages  here.
Purchase and repairs
When buying a bike, make sure that it is road-safe. Otherwise, you will have to pay a fine if you are stopped by the police.
A safe bicycle has:


Light at the front and rear


Reflector at the front and rear


Reflectors in the spokes (2 per wheel)


Reflectors on the pedals


Bell


Two independent brakes


Radlkeller
Do you need a bicycle? You have a bike that needs attention? Then come along! We offer space, tools, replacement parts and helpful advice. You have to do the repairing yourself, but we are very happy to help you. Our collection of second-hand bikes and parts is available to everyone.Do you want to help us? We are delighted to have voluntary helpers. And if you donate a bike, it will be in good hands.
 Find out more
Radlkeller im Bellevue di MonacoMüllerstraße 480469 Munich 089/55057750 radl@bellevuedimonaco.de Tuesday 19:30 - 21:30