Jobcenter
The Jobcenter of the federal capital city of Munich is responsible for the implementation of the second volume of the social regulations book, Grundsicherung (subsistence) for job-seekers (SGB II) with the following focus points:

Work and training
Information on support and funding options
Subsistence help benefits for job-seekers
Bildungs- und Teilhabepaket / BuT (Education and participation programme) for children and adolescents

The Jobcenter of the federal capital city of Munich helps job-seekers and their families.

We provide information and advise you.
We will support you in starting and keeping a job.
You can get  financial help with living costs (Unemployment benefit II, income support).

Further opportunities help you with:

referring you to the »» integration language courses of the BAMF
measures to establish what jobs you are suitable for
referral to measures specially designed for refugees

We provide advice and support you no matter what your nationality. However you must live permanently in Germany and be allowed to work here. The Jobcenter is not responsible for persons with Aufenthaltsgestattung (temporary residence permit) or Duldung (temporary postponement of deportation).
Benefits according to the SGB II
If you have not yet worked in Germany, or worked for less than a year and are now unemployed, you are normally entitled to benefits according to the SGB II regulations. You receive these benefits via the Jobcenter. The benefits include:

Arbeitslosengeld II (Unemployment benefit II)
Costs of accommodation and heating
Advice, referral and integration services

Grundsicherung (subsistence) for job-seekers is intended to increase the individual responsibility of people entitled to benefits who are able to work and people who live with you (for example in your family or a civil partnership). It is intended to help you to finance your living expenses independently of Grundsicherung (subsistence) from your own means and ability, and thereby support you in starting or keeping a job.
 On the homepage of the Jobcenter München, you will find a summary of the main support services that are intended to improve the chances of finding a job and enable integration progress.
Please discuss your issue with the case officer responsible for you. You can find the contact details  here.
Contact
You can find a Jobcenter in every one of the twelve München Sozialbürgerhäuser (SBH). Your residential address decides which Sozialbürgerhaus is responsible for you.
 Find your Sozialbürgerhaus here
If you are homeless, please get in contact with the Jobcenter Zentrum für Wohnen und Integration (ZWI) at Franziskanerstraße 6-8.