LGBTI* - Advice and help
Counselling centre for lesbian and bisexual women LeTRa
The service focuses on lesbian women, bisexual women, women in the process of coming out, lesbian couples, parents, family members and friends of lesbian women, multipliers* and people who want to explore the topic:



We are there for you and help you in the difficulties that lesbians encounter in everyday life.
Our lesbian / bisexual counsellors offer individual and couples counselling on the most varied topics and life situations, either in a one-off session or a serious of discussions.
Of course, we would also be happy to advise you by telephone or email.
These counselling services take place in a protected environment, are confidential and can be anonymous if you wish.
Lesbians with different cultural backgrounds and origins are just as welcome as transgender lesbians and all transgender people, intersexual people as well as lesbian with disabilities and psychological illnesses.



 Interpreters in all languages are available on request. We speak English, French and German.
You can bring your children with you.
All premises have barrier-free access as well as a disabled toilet.
The service is free, however, we would be delighted to receive a donation.
Please make an appointment by telephone.
LeTRa Lesbenberatung
Blumenstraße 29 (entrance in courtyard)
80331 Munich
 089/72542
 info@letra.de
 www.letra.de
 Arrange an appointment:
 Monday 14:30 - 17:00
Wednesday 14:30 - 17:00
LeTRa also offers »» Advice for lesbian and bisexual refugees.
This text contains information about the following search terms:
Advice for lesbian refugees, lesbian counselling

Schwules Kommunikations- und Kulturzentrum e. V. (Sub)
Non-profit organisation to promote the identity of gay men in all life situations. Over 20 services covering

Counselling
Leisure
Intercultural issues
Language courses
Self-help
Information about HIV/Aids.

Who’s it for: Gays, bisexual queer men, both cis* and trans* in all life situations, everyone is welcome. There are no specific services for heterosexual people.
All premises have barrier-free access as well as a disabled toilet.
The service is free.
Sub – Schwules Kommunikations- und Kulturzentrum e. V.
Müllerstraße 14b (rear building)
80469 Munich
 089/85634640
 info@subonline.org
 www.subonline.org
Sunday - Thursday 19:00 - 23:00
Friday 19:00 - 24:00
Saturday 19:00 - 24:00
Sub offers »» psycho-social counselling, also especially for gay and bisexual men with a migration background.
This text contains information about the following search terms:
Gay, homosexual, bisexual, queer, international, transgender, leisure time, self-help, counselling, culture, politics, identity, refuge, refugee, rainbow, LSBT, HIV/AIDS

Trans*Inter*Beratungsstelle
Counselling for trans* and inter* persons and their family members;
Training, specialist advice and public relations work in the field of
trans* and inter*.
Who’s it for: Trans*and inter* persons, family members, specialists and the interested public
All premises have barrier-free access as well as a disabled toilet.
The service is free.
Trans*Inter*Beratungsstelle
Lindwurmstraße 71
80337 Munich
 089/54333130
 info@trans-inter-beratungsstelle.de
 www.trans-inter-beratungsstelle.de
 Monday and Thursday 13:00 – 15:00
and by appointment
This text contains information about the following search terms:
trans, inter, transgender, intersex

Beratung LGBTIQ* - Diversity München
Our pedagogic employees are available to give you advice on the topics of the LGBTIQ* spectrum. The offer is also available to parents as well as teenagers and young adults and also teachers. Our counselling service takes place on an anonymous basis.
 Find out more
For some activities there is a small charge to cover costs.
Please make an appointment.
Blumenstraße 11
80331 Munich
 089/55266986
 beratung@diversity-muenchen.de
This text contains information about the following search terms:
LGBT, bisexual, youth group, leisure group, queer, gay, lesbian, non-binary

