German courses for initial language orientation
The German courses for initial language orientation (also: initial orientation courses) provide both elementary knowledge of German as well as information about life in Germany. They are a practical first step for participants in a new social environment and help with their orientation in everyday life. 
One course comprises 300 lesson units, each 45 minutes long and covers topics such as “health/medical care”, “work”, “nursery/school”, “housing”, “orientation on site/traffic/mobility”. Spoken communication is the main focus: Participants should learn as quickly as possible how to find their way around in everyday life. In the case of initial orientation courses, it is also a question of teaching values.
Initial orientation courses are primarily intended for asylum seekers with an unclear prospect of permanent residence in Germany. Provided that there are free places on the course, recognised asylum seekers, legally tolerated foreigners and asylum seekers with good prospects of permanent residence may also participate. If you are still school age (6 to 15 years) or obliged to attend vocational college (16 to 21), you don’t attend the initial orientation course, but your school or educational facility. 
If you are given access to an »» integration course while participating in an initial orientation course, it is possible to switch to this course. 
The people on the courses have very different educational backgrounds. Illiterate people can attend the courses as well as university graduates. Initial orientation courses are free.
The course language is German – interpreters are not present on the course.
Contact an »» Immigration Advice Centre or your »» Asylum and Integration counselling service on-site in your hostel. They will help you to find a suitable course.
 Find out more
People who are not eligible for this offer can contact the »» Integrationsberatungszentrum IBZ Sprache und Beruf (integration advice centre IBZ language and careers). It organises supplementary German language courses.
