Advice and referrals to German language courses
When you live in Germany, it is important that you learn to speak German. If you speak German, this will help you in everyday life and in your contact with other people. Also, if you want to start working, start a training course or study for a degree at university, it is very important to know the language.
There are different language levels that build upon one another. The levels used in the language and integration courses correspond to the »» levels of the Common European Framework.
The range of German course programmes and different types of course is huge. The courses are aimed at different groups of people. The following advice centres are available to help you in your search for the right course:
Asylum seekers / people with tolerated status (Duldung):
The »» refugee and integration advice centres in the hostels (FIB) support residents in registering for German courses for initial orientation and refer them to centres that give further courses.

All persons, (independently of residence status) who are 16 years or older in the city area of Munich:
The »» Integrationsberatungszentrum IBZ Sprache und Beruf (integration advice centre IBZ language and careers) can

Ascertain your language level
Choose the right German course for you
Your professional goals will be taken into account.
Your family situation will be taken into account.
It’s only possible to attend language courses run by the city of München through the Integrationsberatungszentrum IBZ Sprache und Beruf (integration advice centre IBZ language and careers). These are open to people who would otherwise not have access to courses.


Adult migrants from the age of 27 upwards:
The »» Migrationsberatung für Erwachsene, MBE (Migration Advice Centre for Adults)  will support you

In registering for an integration course (IK)
In searching for a suitable course provider


Advice for migrants up to the age of 27:
The »» The Jugendmigrationsdienst (Youth Migration Service)  supports you

In registering for an integration course (IK)
In searching for a suitable course provider
