Welcome

Dorothee Schiwy, Head of Social Services
 
Dear ladies and gentlemen, dear newcomers from abroad,
as Head of Social Services for the city of Munich, I would like to personally welcome you to our city!
The federal capital city of Munich has a history dating back over 800 years. The image of Munich today, its success as an economic location and its appeal are shaped by immigration from abroad. More than 43% of people in Munich are either immigrants themselves or have family roots in other countries. Munich is proud to be a city of diversity and to be able to build upon an open and tolerant city community!
Moving or even fleeing to another country can mean making big adjustments. In order to make the start easier for you and to aid your orientation, we have put together some information and contacts, which will be useful in organising your everyday life in Munich as well as in the context of being a newcomer in Germany. You can find where to go if you have questions about your stay, accessing the job market and language courses as well as the topics of healthcare, looking after children, leisure offers and much more.
I hope you will soon feel part of our city community, get to know people, find a new home here and be interested in shaping communal life in Munich together with us. Given that the prerequisite for living together as a civilised society is the readiness of all city residents to take responsibility for this. To make this possible for you, the federal capital city of München places great importance on promoting integration services for everyone from the first day of their stay in München. You can find information here »» IBZ Sprache und Beruf.
If you are staying in Munich during your asylum procedure, your stay is characterised by many legal requirements that may seem very restrictive. I want to assure you that – wherever the city of München is responsible for the implementation of legal requirements – the city administration strives to implement these in a humane and dignified manner. Particularly if you are in this situation, I recommend that you use the Integreat app intensively to find out about all the possibilities for support and self-determined organisation of your everyday life in Munich.
I wish you a great start in Munich!

Dorothee Schiwy
Head of Social Services
