Advice in the Jugendinformationszentrum (JIZ)
Who’s it for: Children, adolescents and young adults aged 14 to 26 and all those who deal with young people (parents, teachers, specialist youth workers)
Barrier-free access to the building and premises is available.
All the services offered by the team are free.
Jugendinformationszentrum (JIZ)
Sendlinger Straße 7
80331 Munich
 089/55052150
 info@jiz-muenchen.de
 www.jiz-muenchen.de
 JIZ general:
Monday 12:00 - 19:00
Tuesday to Friday 13:00 - 18:00

General advice
Information and advice for young people and all those who deal with adolescents, on all topics and also in crisis situations. The advice is free and, upon request, anonymous. You do not need to arrange an appointment. Contact is possible in person, by telephone, email or whatsapp. In the JIZ there are around 1,000 flyers on many topics available free and a PC for Internet research.
 Monday 12:00 - 19:00
Tuesday to Friday 13:00 - 18:00

My data – my rights!?
Data protection – what is it? What should my profile in social networks look like and what’s not a good idea? What do apps reveal about me? How can I assert my (data protection) rights?
You can ask the JIZ these questions and similar ones by email ( info@jiz-muenchen.de) by telephone or in person. An external specialist lawyer will come back to you quickly with an expert answer and if necessary will arrange a personal consultation with you (registration in the JIZ required). The consultation can be anonymous upon request.
Please make an appointment.
 Office hours:
Monday 12:00 - 19:00
Tuesday to Friday 13:00 - 18:00
Data protection advice: by arrangement/registration

Young people and the police
Sometimes there are misunderstandings or conflicts between young people and the police. The JIZ offers specialist advice concerning issues and problems dealing with the police and judiciary. Questions are passed on to the JIZ legal team which then gives advice. This is a free initial consultation that falls within the scope of the Kinder- und Jugendhilfegesetz (Children and Youth Services Act); it is not possible for us to take on your case and represent you in court.
Please make an appointment.
 Monday 12:00 - 19:00
Tuesday to Friday 13:00 - 18:00

Legal advice for young people
Volunteer lawyers give you information in personal interviews about all legal problems – it doesn’t matter if it’s about family arguments, difficulties in school, training or job, stress with your neighbour, conflicts with authorities or the police, or court cases.
This is a general legal initial consultation. The lawyers cannot take on your case or represent you in court. They only advise you in person.
 Legal advice:
Tuesday 16:00 - 18:00
(you are advised to arrive early)
 Legal advice:
1st + 3rd Monday in the month 4:00 PM - 6:00 PM
(you are advised to arrive early)

Questions about the Jobcenter?
Many questions often arise in connection with the Jobcenter. At the JIZ, young people up to the age of 25 can get information + tips on questions such as:

I am not (yet) familiar with the Jobcenter in terms of official matters?
I don’t know who my contact person at the Jobcenter is?
I want to know how the Jobcenter can support me?
I get letters from authorities and don’t know what to do with them?
I am already registered with the Jobcenter and have financial problems...

Astrid Best and Thomas Mahler from the “Verbindungsstelle SGB II” provide tailored advice from the »» JiBB Munich. The consultation is anonymous on request and of course free of charge.
 Monday 2:00 PM - 4:00 PM

This text contains information about the following search terms:
Media law, General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), criminal law, criminal proceedings, help, youth advice, youth information, laws, legal issues, family law, social law
