Vocational German Language Courses (DeuFÖV)
Vocational German language courses, known as DeuFöV courses, help to improve your own German language skills after you have completed an integration course, for example. These DeuFöV courses can be attended alongside a job, education or a vocational qualification programme or as preparation for starting a career in Germany.
The basic modules of the DeuFöV courses are aimed at guiding you to language level C2 in three modules of 300 lesson units. Each of these modules includes a certification exam. The prerequisite for participation in a DeuFöV course is a language fluency level of at least B1.
However, there are also special modules that only require speaking level A2 or B1. Additional special modules are specifically adapted to specific occupational groups.
The offer is open, among others, to:

Persons with a migration background in measures according to SGB III, including: German nationals with a migration background, EU citizens, other immigrants including persons in the asylum procedure with good prospects of permanent residence and tolerated foreigners (with Duldung) according to Section 60a Par. 2 Sentence 3 of the German Residence Act (AufenthG). If you belong to one of these groups, you need a certificate of entitlement to participate from the  Agentur für Arbeit (Employment Agency) before you can attend the course. Refugees from so-called safe countries of origin in the asylum procedure are excluded.
Persons with a migration background in respect to the SGB (social code) II including: German citizens with a migration background, EU citizens, other immigrants and recognised persons in need of protection. If you belong to one of these groups, you need a certificate of entitlement to participate from the  Jobcenter before you can attend the course.
Persons obtaining initial qualification, in vocational training or in a recognition procedure or persons who need a certain language level to receive a licence to practice their profession in Germany. If you belong to one of these groups, you need a certificate of entitlement to participate from the  Bundesamt für Migration und Flüchtlinge (BAMF) before you can attend the course.

If you are not in employment that is subject to social security contributions, participation is free. If you are employed and required to pay social security contributions, you must pay a fee of 2.07 EUR per lesson unit.
Contact the linked drop-in centres. They will support you or refer you further.

People who are not eligible for this offer can contact the »» Integrationsberatungszentrum IBZ Sprache und Beruf (integration advice centre IBZ language and careers). It organises supplementary German language courses.
