Services in the BildungsLokale
All the services offered by the team are free.
Education advice
The BildungsLokale advise on these and other topics:

Early years education, starting school, learning support, holiday programmes, transition from school – job
Further education for adults, catching up on school qualifications, language courses, literacy courses, re-starting work after having children or immigrating
Sport and leisure offers in the district

The education counselling team work with other institutions in the district such as schools, nurseries, leisure clubs, hostels and adult education institutions.
Who’s it for: all people from the surrounding area who have questions about educational topics or need support when transitioning in the education system
You can find this offer at the following locations: »» Hasenbergl, »» Berg am Laim / Ramersdorf, »» Neuaubing / Westkreuz, »» Neuperlach, »» Riem, »» Schwanthalerhöhe.

Drop-in learning workshop
The drop-in learning workshop is a cooperation project with the Munich Volkshochschule (MVHS, adult education centre). Learning support specialists from the Volkshochschule design the programme together with local training advisers. You can learn reading, writing, arithmetic and the German language at your own tempo, without pressure and in a pleasant atmosphere. The drop-in learning workshop is an introduction to learning. It prepares you to attend a course.
Who’s it for: adults from the surrounding areas who cannot read and write well, who did not go to school or who did not attend school very much,
who want to learn German but are not able to attend a course
You can find this offer at the following locations: »» Hasenbergl, »» Berg am Laim / Ramersdorf, »» Neuaubing / Westkreuz, »» Neuperlach, »» Riem.

Sprachcafé
The Sprachcafé (Language café) is a programme of the local educational counselling service. You can practice speaking German in a relaxed atmosphere here. As well as learning words, grammar and expressions, you also learn things about life in Germany. Sometimes guest teachers are invited to discuss important topics. There are also trips around the district and in the city (to museums, for example).
Who’s it for: adults from the surrounding area who want to practice speaking German
You can find this programme at the following locations: »» Berg am Laim / Ramersdorf, »» Neuaubing / Westkreuz, »» Neuperlach, »» Riem, »» Schwanthalerhöhe.

This text contains information about the following search terms:
Learn German, learn the alphabet, speak German, language level A1-B1, repeat, support, culture, language development, return to work
