What happens in the Young Refugee Center?
All young people who said that they were under 18 and arrived in Munich without their parents stay for a short time at the Young Refugee Center.
What do I need a first registration / age estimation / medical examination for?
You need to register with us so that you can legally stay in Germany. You will also be medically examined by our team of doctors. This is to see if you have any infection diseases which need to be treated. After a few days, we will have a conversation with you and check your age. If you don’t have any identification documents, your age will be estimated. Then you will receive a temporary identity document. If you are estimated to be older than 18, we at the Jugendamt (Youth Welfare Office) are not responsible for you. Then you have to go to the Regierung von Oberbayern (Government of Upper Bavaria). We will tell you how to get there and give you a ticket.
Where will I live?
If you are under 18, you will usually find out during the first two weeks in which town/city in Germany you can live on a long-term basis. This decision is regulated by law and is not decided by you but by the government. If you are ill or if someone from your family is already living here, you may be able to stay in Munich. Tell your supervisors if you have family in Germany. They will help you to get in touch with your relatives and the Jugendamt (Youth Welfare Office) there.
Who supervises me?
Because you are under 18, members of the Stadtjugendamt (City Youth Welfare Office) will supervise you until your 18th birthday, sometimes also afterwards, until you can live your life independently. Your supervisors are the people to contact if you have any questions; they are available 24 hours a day.
Where can I make an asylum application?
Your first registration takes place in the arrival centre or the Young Refugee Center. With your temporary ID document you can then make an application for asylum with the help of your legal guardian.
Am I allowed to travel during my asylum procedure?
While your asylum procedure is ongoing you are only allowed to travel with the permission of the relevant Ausländerbehörde (Immigration Office). This is either the »» Ausländerbehörde München or the »» Zentrale Ausländerbehörde ZAB.
