General information
Pregnant women in Germany get extra care and are entitled to advice, medical care and support for the purchase of baby products. If you are pregnant, the first step is to visit a gynaecologist (women's doctor). You should go there for regular check-ups. You will then receive a Mutterpass (maternity record book). The Mutterpass (maternity record book) is a document with important information about your pregnancy, your health, and your child's health. Always carry your Mutterpass (maternity record book) with you in case there are any emergencies.
Contact a »» pregnancy counselling centre even before the birth so that you can get support there and find out what you need to know (and do) regarding pregnancy and birth.
After the birth, there are a few things to clear up with the German authorities so that you and your child are well taken care of: 
Birth certificate
Newborn children must be registered with the “Standesamt” (registry office). At the “Standesamt” (registry office), you will receive the birth certificate for your child with your identification document, birth certificate and, if available, your marriage certificate.
Baby starter kit
»» Baby starter kit
Child benefit
If one parent of the newborn child lives or works in Germany, you can receive child benefit for your child under certain conditions. You can also discuss this with a »» pregnancy counsellor.
Parental allowance
If you are a parent with a permanent residence permit, parental benefit is available to you under certain conditions. You can also discuss this with a »» pregnancy counsellor.

Parental leave
Parental leave is an unpaid break from working life for mothers and fathers who look after and bring up their child themselves. During this time, you do not have to work and do not receive a salary. To compensate, you can apply for parental allowance, for example. You can take your parental leave before your child’s 3rd birthday. You can also take part of it in the period between the 3rd and the 8th birthday. 
During parental leave, you enjoy special protection from dismissal. After parental leave, you can return to your old job in most cases.

