Grundgesetz (basic law) and human rights
Everyone living in Germany must abide by the Grundgesetz (basic law) of the political and legal system.
The main legal basis of life in Germany is the Grundgesetz (basic law). This is the constitution of the Federal Republic of Germany.
Under the Grundgesetz (basic law), every person living in Germany is, therefore, a free individual with a right to self-determination.
No distinctions may be made on the basis of gender, origin (ancestry, language, home), skin colour, religion, beliefs or philosophy, disability, age or sexual orientation.
Germany is a federal republic consisting of 16 Bundesländer (federal states).
Germany is a democratic state. This means that all the power of the state comes from the people.
Principles of the basic law
Protection of human dignity
Article 1
(1) Human dignity shall be inviolable. To respect and protect it shall be the duty of all state authority. 
(...)
Personal freedoms
Article 2
(1) All persons shall have the right to free development of their personality insofar as they do not violate the rights of others or offend against the constitutional order or the moral law.
(...)
This also means the right to sexual self-determination. This means: all persons can decide for themselves which sexual acts they want to participate in and nobody can be forced to do something they do not want to do.
Equality before the law
Article 3
(1) All persons shall be equal before the law.
(2) Men and women shall have equal rights. The state shall promote the actual implementation of equal rights for women and men and take steps to eliminate disadvantages that exist today.
 www.zanzu.de
(3) No person shall be favoured or disfavoured because of gender, parentage, race, language, homeland and origin, faith, or religious or political opinions. No person shall be disfavoured because of disability.
Freedom of faith, conscience and creed
Article 4
(1) Freedom of faith and of conscience, and freedom to profess a religious or philosophical creed, shall be inviolable.
(...)
Freedom of expression
Article 5
(1) All persons shall have the right freely to express and disseminate their opinions in speech, writing, and pictures and to inform themselves without hindrance from generally accessible sources. Freedom of the press and freedom of reporting by means of broadcasts and film shall be guaranteed. There shall be no censorship.
(...)
Marriage and the family; children born outside marriage
Article 6
(1) Marriage and the family shall enjoy the special protection of the state.
(...)
Here, you can find the Grundgesetz (basic law) in 11 languages:  Arabic,  Chinese,  English,  French,   Italian,   Persian,   Polish,   Russian,   Serbian,  Spanish,   Turkish  and of course  German
Universal declaration of human rights
Human rights are important rights that apply to everyone all over the world. Human rights are rights that every person has on the basis of their humanity. They protect the dignity of every human being and apply to every person equally, regardless of “race, colour, gender, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status”. (Article 2. of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, issued on 10/12/1948)
There are 30 rights. The most important are:

 All people are of equal value.
Everyone is allowed to have their own opinion.
Right to peace and safety.

The rules for co-existence in Germany are based on these fundamental rights.
The Landesamt für politische Bildung Nordrhein-Westfalen (State Centre for Political Education NRW) published the  flyer “Democracy for me” (March 2016) in which these rules are presented in a clear way. It explains the keywords of these rules and what is and is not allowed in Germany.
