Shopping
Cheap places to shop
Living expenses in Munich are relatively high. Food is offered cheaply by the large discount shops. If you have a low income, it’s also worth looking at the offers from the social markets. There you can buy furniture and utility objects as well as clothing cheaply. There are also many second-hand shops and flea markets.
Social shops in Munich
Kaufhaus diakonia secondhand
Dachauer Straße 192
 089/18914800
 http://diakonia-kaufhaus.de
 Monday to Friday 10:00 - 19:00
Saturday 10:00 - 15:00
 Further locations of Diakonia Dienstleistungbetriebe GmbH
Weißer Rabe soziale Betriebe und Dienste GmbH
Second-hand clothing shop
Landsberger Straße 146
 089/8894930
 http://www.weisser-rabe.de
Halle 2 - second-hand shop
Bargain shop  of the AWM
Sachsenstraße 29
81543 Munich
 089/23396200
 http://www.awm-muenchen.de/privathaushalte/abfallvermeidung/halle-2.html
Second-hand shops
You can find a list of all second-hand shops in Munich  here.
Flea markets
You can find a list of all flea markets in Munich  here.
Buying Halal food
You can find food shops that sell only halal food at the southern side of the main railway station (Hauptbahnhof). There are also many halal restaurants there, too. Another shopping possibility is near the Pasinger Bahnhof. Some of the large supermarket chains also now offer halal food. Make sure to observe the labelling on the package.
Buy packaging-free
More and more people want to buy without packaging and thereby make a contribution to avoiding waste and improving sustainability. In Munich, there are several opportunities to do this.
Weekly markets
More than 40 weekly markets and farmers’ markets are spread across the entire city. Here you can buy excellent quality at a fair price. Over 120 traders from all food sectors supply the population of Munich with fresh and mostly regional produce. Taking your own shopping bags or baskets reduces or avoids packaging material.
 Locations of the weekly markets
"Einmal ohne bitte"
This project, “one of those, without, please” tells you on its website about shops and restaurants in which you can shop without packaging.
 Find out more
