Family planning / contraception and sexual counselling
Family planning
You have the right to family planning. This means: You are the only person who decides whether you want to have children, and how many children to have. Nobody can force you to have children.
Contraception
There are various methods for preventing pregnancy and avoiding  sexually transmitted infections (STIs).
 Find out more
Brief information on contraception:
»» Kurmanci, »» Pari, »» Croatian, »» Arabic, »» Bulgarian, »» Turkish, »» Polish, »» Romanian, »» French, »»English, »»Russian, »»Spanish
You can get personal advice about various methods of contraception here: »» Pregnancy counselling
Sexual Counselling
Sexual self-determination means choosing how to experience your own sexuality, choosing who to experience it with. No one is allowed to force you into anything. In sexual counselling you can talk about your sexuality in a safe setting. It can be about many topics - questions about the body, sexual orientation, sexual difficulties such as listlessness or erection problems, and also experiences of sexual violence.
 Find out more
Getting Pregnant
How do you get pregnant? Are there any difficulties in getting pregnant? How can you tell if you're pregnant?
 Find out more
You can get personal advice on pregnancy and unfulfilled desire for children here: »» Pregnancy counselling
Being pregnant
You can find all the advice centres which can support you with pregnancy here: »» Pregnancy counselling
 Find out more
Unwanted Pregnancy
If you are pregnant and you do not want to have the baby, you can end the pregnancy (have an abortion) in some circumstances. Before you end a pregnancy, you will have to go to a counselling session. Make an appointment by telephone with a »» state-approved pregnancy advice centre. The counsellors (all women) will talk to you about your various options and answer all legal and medical questions. The decision whether to end a pregnancy is, of course, always yours and yours alone.
 Find out more (multilingual)
