Brustkrebs Deutschland e. V.
The association Brustkrebs Deutschland e.V. has a wide range of programmes about breast cancer:

You can order information flyers and brochures about the topic of breast cancer from us free. The relevant  order form is available on our website.
Free of charge breast cancer telephone in Germany  0800/0117112
Via this number we offer you a free medical telephone consultation hour on Mondays from 17:30 to 19:00. Here you can get a second opinion or further information if you need it. You can get further information about the counselling services in English here.
 Here you can find the most up-to-date information about the topic of breast cancer. We and all doctors involved will always try to explain complicated facts in understandable language.
 Here you can find many free videos which have been taken at national and international congresses. There is usually also a live stream from the major international congresses.
Email newsletter: In our email newsletter we inform you several times a year about our activities, events, donation campaigns and news from medicine and politics. You can subscribe to the  newsletter here.

Other programmes:

Patients can order a free wellbeing package from the association. As well as comprehensive information material, this also contains a few small things for your wellbeing.
Emergency help funds for patients who face financial hardship as a result of their diagnosis.
Sufferers advise sufferers here: regular counselling offer at various locations.
Lectures and workshops (also online): During patient days throughout Germany, we offer regular lectures and workshops on different topics. Here you will find an overview of the dates.

Who’s it for: Breast cancer patients and relatives
The service is free.
Please arrange a telephone appointment. We can only counsel you by telephone. Counselling takes place in German or English.
Brustkrebs Deutschland e. V.
Lise-Meitner-Straße 7
85662 Hohenbrunn
 089/41619800
 online@brustkrebsdeutschland.de
 Monday to Thursday 09:00 - 14:30
This text contains information about the following search terms:
Information offer, breast cancer treatment, breast cancer disease
