Financial support for people with a residence permit / probationary residence permit
Gehörlosenverband München e.V.Important information on the registration process for deaf refugees: Website gmu.ukraine@gmail.com
Residence permit:
Anyone, regardless of their residence status in Ukraine, who has left the country on or after 24.02.2022 may enter Germany without a visa and does not need a residence permit until 31.08.2022.After that - or if you want to work in Germany - you will need a residence permit.
Financial support:
From 1 June 2022, refugees from Ukraine will be entitled to subsistence (SGB II / Unemployment benefit II). Subsistence includes financial support, health insurance, access to development and qualification programmes, such as language courses, integration courses and further training opportunities. Costs for accommodation and heating can also be covered. Applications are submitted via the Jobcenter / Sozialbürgerhaus (SBH).
 Find out more
Prerequisites for SGB II:-Submission of the probationary residence permit or the residence permit in accordance with Section 24 (1) of the Residence Act (AufenthG).  »» Here is how to apply for a residence permit.- Submission of registration in the “Ausländerzentralregister” or AZR (Central Register of Foreigners). Registration is made at the  Kreisverwaltungsreferat (district administration office).  You will be automatically registered in the Central Register of Foreigners when you receive your probationary residence permit.
Here are the documents you need to apply for SGB II:Information on applying to the Jobcenter for SGB II benefits
Your current address determines which SBH is responsible for you. Enter your address  here to find out which SBH is the right one for you.
There are three ways to submit your application: 1. In person, 2. By post / email, 3. Online. You will be notified if there are documents missing.In person:You will be given the necessary application documents at your appointment. We will also support you in the submission of your applications.Interpreters are available.To avoid waiting, book an appointment online or over the phone: 089/453550 (Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 18:00) OnlineOnly one applicant from your family is required to attend the Jobcenter. Please bring the following documents and evidence to your appointment:- Passports of all applicants or birth certificates for children- Residence permit / probationary residence permit for all applicantsIf you have the following documents available, please also bring them to the appointment:- Do you have accommodation costs to pay? Then please bring evidence (e.g. rental contract) that details the costs.- Do you work? Then please bring evidence of your income.- Do you have a German bank account? Then please bring evidence of your account number (IBAN).
By post / email:Use the short application and the short application for additional persons which are available in various languages. If you would like to apply for reimbursement of the costs of lunch, excursions or school trips for your child, you can use the Antrag Bildung und Teilhabe (Application for Education and Participation). Please send the documents by post/email to your Sozialbürgerhaus: Jobcenter im Sozialbürgerhaus Berg am Laim-Trudering-Riem, Streitfeldstraße 23, 81673 Munich jobcenter-muenchen.btr@jobcenter-ge.de Jobcenter im Sozialbürgerhaus Nord, Knorrstraße 101-103, 80807 Munich jobcenter-muenchen.nord@jobcenter-ge.de Jobcenter im Sozialbürgerhaus Giesing-Harlaching, Werner-Schlierf-Straße 9, 81539 Munich jobcenter-muenchen.giesing-harlaching@jobcenter-ge.de Jobcenter im Sozialbürgerhaus Laim-Schwanthalerhöhe, Ridlerstraße 75, 80339 Munich jobcenter-muenchen.laim-schwanthalerhoehe@jobcenter-ge.de Jobcenter im Sozialbürgerhaus Mitte, Schwanthalerstraße 62, 80336 Munich jobcenter-muenchen.mitte@jobcenter-ge.de Jobcenter im Sozialbürgerhaus Neuhausen-Moosach, Ehrenbreitsteiner Straße 24, 80993 Munich jobcenter-muenchen.neuhausen-moosach@jobcenter-ge.de Jobcenter im Sozialbürgerhaus Orleansplatz, Orleansplatz 11, 81667 Munich jobcenter-muenchen.sbh-orleansplatz@jobcenter-ge.de Jobcenter im Sozialbürgerhaus Pasing, Landsberger Straße 486, 81241 Munich jobcenter-muenchen.pasing@jobcenter-ge.de  Jobcenter im Sozialbürgerhaus Süd, Schertlinstraße 2, 81379 Munich Jobcenter-Muenchen.SBH-Sued@jobcenter-ge.de Jobcenter im Sozialbürgerhaus Ramersdorf-Perlach, Thomas-Dehler-Straße 16, 81737 Munich jobcenter-muenchen.ramersdorf-perlach@jobcenter-ge.de Jobcenter im Sozialbürgerhaus Schwabing-Freimann, Heidemannstraße 170, 80939 Munich jobcenter-muenchen.schwabing-freimann@jobcenter-ge.de Jobcenter im Sozialbürgerhaus Sendling-Westpark, Meindlstraße 16, 81373 Munich jobcenter-muenchen.sendling-westpark@jobcenter-ge.de Zentrum Wohnen und Integration, Franziskanerstraße 6-8, 81669 Munich jobcenter-muenchen.zwi@jobcenter-ge.de Fachstelle für berufliche Wiedereingliederung, Mühldorfstraße 1, 81671 Munich Jobcenter-Muenchen.Reha-SB@jobcenter-ge.de
Online:You can submit the application digitally here.
You need your own account so that payments are not delayed. If you do not have an account, it is also possible to receive a cash payment by arrangement with the responsible SBH.If you have any questions, contact the service centre: 089/453550 ( Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 18:00) 089/453552878 Or email your Jobcenter.
Additional support for families and children:
If you have a residence permit / probationary residence permit, you can apply for additional support, such as child benefits, parental allowance or child support payments. You can find the relevant information here: in German in English in Ukrainian in Russian