
How to vote
In this election, you decide who gets a place on the Migration Advisory Board. You have 40 votes. The nominations (= lists) with the candidates for the election of the Migration Advisory Board are finalised at the end of January.
Ballot paper
On the ballot paper, all nominations are sorted by initial letters from A to Z. Each list has a number, an identifying name and numbered candidates. Each person's name, nationality and profession are listed.
Here you will find all  nominations (lists) and a  sample ballot paper. You can also use an  online test ballot paper to see how the casting of votes works.
Casting votes
You have 40 votes. If you cast more votes, the ballot paper is invalid.
Here are four examples of how you can cast your votes:
(1) Cast votes freely You can cast your votes freely among the candidates on the whole ballot paper. You put a cross next to all the people you want to vote for, no matter which list they are on. This is what is known as splitting your vote.
In addition, you can give extra support to individuals and give them not only one vote, but also two, or up to a maximum of three votes. You can put a cross against the name more than once. Or write the number of votes (1, 2 or 3) in the box next to the name. This is what is known as cumulating.Please make sure that nobody receives more than three votes from you.
(2) Vote for a list You can also vote for a complete list. To do this, you only need to put a cross at the top of the list once next to the identifying name. Your votes will then go to the candidates on this list in turn until all 40 votes have been distributed. People who appear there three times get three votes. People who appear there twice get two votes.
(3) Vote for a list - with changes If you choose a whole list, you can still change something according to your preferences. For example, you can cross out one or more names from the list. These people then do not get a vote. You can also give extra support to people on the list by giving them two or three votes.
(4) Vote for a list and additionally cast votes freely A mixed form is also possible: You can vote for a list (with and without amendments) and additionally cast votes freely. This means that you can also put a cross next to people on other lists on the ballot paper and give them up to three votes.
The count then works like this: On your ballot paper, all the votes you have given to individuals are added up first. What then remains of your 40 votes goes to the list you put a cross next to. This means that all the remaining votes go to the people on this list in order. This way, no vote is wasted.
You can also find all examples on the  "How do I vote?” information sheet.Use the  online test ballot paper to try it out. Test your vote casting.
