
Financing your studies
Many students have a job alongside their studies. It is important to make sure that this does not mean that you neglect your studies. Incidentally, it is a government ruling that you must not work more than 20 hours a week during the semester. If you exceed this maximum number of hours, you could be expelled from the university. You also need to note that there is a maximum number of semesters to complete a bachelor's or master's degree, which you may not exceed. It is possible to apply for financial support from the government. Examples include the »» Bundesausbildungsförderungsgesetz (BAföG) and »» housing allowance.
BaföG (student loans) are intended to help students who cannot receive financial help from their parents. You receive a monthly amount of money (for a specified period); the amount depends on your personal circumstances. Not every student can claim BAföG. The relevant Bafög office needs to check every application individually. BAföG is normally only provided for full-time study. In addition, to get funding for a bachelor's degree you must not be older than 30, and for a master's degree no older than 35. You can find information written in simple language at the  Bundesministerium für Bildung und Forschung.
There are many grants for which you can apply. You can get an overview at the  grants guide and the  website of the Deuschlandstipendium and the  educational counselling service Garantiefonds Hochschule in München.
You can become aworking student - Werkstudent/in - in the first semester for many courses, but also later. This means that you are employed by a company. This gives you the chance to gain experience and earn money at the same time. Companies usually offer contracts for ten to twenty hours per week. Another advantage is that working students with good grades are often offered permanent jobs with the companies they work for as students. Find out about companies in your area and whether they offer jobs for working students.
SHK stands for “Studentische Hilfskraft” (student assistant). These are advertised positions at universities. You can often find them advertised on noticeboards or you ask directly at the higher education institution. As an SHK, you work fixed hours during the week (max. 20 hours). You undertake tasks such as helping a lecturer, professor or organisation at the university.
Mini-job on 520 Euro basis
Many students work part time in the food service industry (as bartenders, waiters and the like), as tutors, or help with childcare. There are always many job postings on university bulletin boards. Most students have “mini-jobs” (salary on a €520 basis). The advantage is that you are considered to be in “minor employment” and, therefore, do not have to pay tax or social security contributions (unemployment, health and nursing care insurance). And a mini-job can be usually easily combined with your studies. You can find more information here at the  Minijob-Zentrale.
