
Spousal residency – independent right of residence
The rules for foreign spouses or life partners who move here can vary.
The decisive factor is whether or not the partner living in Germany possesses German nationality.
On arrival:
If you move to Munich, you must register as soon as possible (the government stipulates a deadline of 14 days) in the Bürgerbüro (Residents’ Office). There you will receive a registration certificate. In order to register, you can attend the Bürgerbüro (Residents’ Office) in person, or have a person authorised by you to submit the completed and signed registration form. You require an appointment to attend the Bürgerbüro.
You are issued the national visa (category D) to enter Germany or another Schengen state. For your future residency in Germany, you need to apply for a residence permit at the »» Ausländerbehörde (Immigration Office).
You can find the documents you require and the prerequisites here:
Reuniting family members with foreign citizens
Reuniting family members with German citizens
Integration Course
Foreigners who have a valid residence permit and only speak a little or no German can take part in the integration courses run by the Federal Office for Migration and Refugees (BAMF).
In many cases, language knowledge is a condition for obtaining the right to settle in Germany (Niederlassungserlaubnis). The Ausländerbehörde (Immigration Office) can oblige you to take part in an integration course if you cannot make yourself understood in German and are applying for a residence permit for the first time:

for employment purposes (sections 18a to 18d, 19c and 21 AufenthG),
for the purpose of family reunification (sections 28, 29, 30, 32, 36, 36a AufenthG),
for humanitarian reasons (section 25 par. 1 and 2, 4a sentence 3 or 25b AufenthG),
for people entitled to stay long term in other member states of the European Union (section 38a AufenthG)
for residence permits pursuant to section 23 par. 2 or par. 4 AufenthG

Find out more
Access to the labour market
People who receive a residence permit for family reunification are permitted to work. The residence permit also serves as a work permit. They are permitted to take up self-employed and employed work and have unrestricted access to the German labour market.
Independent residence permit
If the marital partnership has existed for at least three years, foreign spouses who join their spouses living in Germany are granted their own resident permit.
For those affected by violence
If the marriage/life partner or the children are threatened by violence from the other marriage/life partner and, therefore, it is not reasonable to expect them to stay in the marriage relationship, exceptions can be made.
In certain cases it is possible that an independent right of residence can be issued at an earlier stage.
