General information
In Germany, there are many different courses of study. There are also different types of universities:

University (more academically focused)
(Fach) Hochschule (practically focused)
Duale Hochschule / dual study: For this type of course, vocational training is combined with studying. You also receive a salary during the course, even if you don’t work in the company all the time.
Kunsthochschule, Filmhochschule and Musikhochschule (colleges for artistic subjects)

There are public and private universities. Private universities are not necessarily better than public ones – however, students usually have to pay high tuition fees at private universities.
There are many helpful websites online to help you find the right route to higher education:

 Hochschulkompass (list of all courses of study and universities in Germany)
 Study in Germany (Information for refugees)
 Agentur für Arbeit (Employment Agency) Study programme orientation
 German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD)

Prerequisites
If you  want to study at a higher education institution in Germany, you need a  university entrance qualification. If you do not have an Abitur (general university entrance qualification) from a German school, you need to check whether the qualification you obtained in your home country is sufficient for you to gain entry to a German university. You can find more detailed information on the  Anabin website, through the  information portal “Recognition in Germany” and on the website of the  German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD).
You also need to bring proof of your good German language skills (»»level C1), such as a certificate from the TestDaF, DSH or telc Deutsch C1 Hochschule.
It is also possible to get support from the educational counselling organisation  Garantiefonds Hochschule. You can get more information from the  German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD).
You should get information directly from the university or college at which you would like to study. Most of them have advice services available. Also make note of the deadlines by which you need to apply for a course of study!
Without a university entrance qualification
If you are eligible to study at university in your home country, but not in Germany, you may be able to get access to higher education through a  Studienkolleg (preparatory college). There, foreign university applicants are given targeted preparation for future studies at a German university or college.
