Information from the Bundesministeriums für Arbeit und Soziales (Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, BMAS):
The Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs helps people who have fled to Germany because of war with issues relating to employment and social security.
Information from the Federal Foreign Office and the Federal Office for Migration and Refugees
Here you will find the latest information and situation reports from the Federal Foreign Office and the Federal Office for Migration and Refugees. Entry rules and visa requirements can also be found on the pages. We have included some important questions and answers here:
I am in Germany without a visa. What options do I have now?
Many people from Ukraine do not need a visa if they enter Germany for the first time before 4 March 2024. They do not need a visa or residence permit to stay in Germany legally for up to 90 days from the date they enter. So the last date on which it is possible to be in Germany legally without a visa or residence permit is 2 June 2024.
During the 90 days in which you can stay in Germany legally without a visa, you can decide whether you would like to stay in Germany longer. If you decide to stay longer, you have the following options:

Within 90 days of entering Germany for the first time, you can apply for a temporary residence permit under section 24 of the Residence Act (Aufenthaltsgesetz, AufenthG). Section 24 deals specifically with the situation of refugees from the war in Ukraine based on the relevant EU decision. You can find out here who is eligible for a temporary residence permit under section 24 of the Residence Act, and you can find out more about the procedure here.  
Within 90 days of entering Germany for the first time, you can apply for a temporary residence permit for a different purpose, such as to study or work in Germany. This may be more advantageous for you. You can make an appointment with the relevant government authorities to ask them for advice. Or you can find out more by visiting the website www.make-it-in-germany.com.
Or you can apply for asylum. However, we do not recommend this option, because it comes with some disadvantages: your right to take up employment would be subject to restrictions, and you would have to live in an initial reception centre.

What happens after I enter the country? Where can I register in Germany and where do I get accommodation and food?
The procedure is divided into four successive steps: First registration and (in the case of benefit recipients) distribution to a place of residence, as well as registration of the residential address at the destination and application for a residence title. You can find further information here.
Can I work in Germany with a residence permit for temporary protection?
Yes, you can. However, gainful employment must first be permitted by the foreigners authority. When the residence permit is issued, the foreigners authority will already enter in the residence title that gainful employment is permitted, even if no concrete job is in prospect yet. This means that no further work permit from another authority is required.
The foreigners authorities will issue so-called probationary certificates when an application is submitted. These bypass the residence law until the actual residence title  can be issued and granted. The foreigners authority will also enter "gainful employment permitted" in the probationary certificate. Even with this probationary certificate, it is therefore possible to work in Germany on a self-employed basis or as an employee. Special professional access requirements (such as a licence to practise medicine or a permit for a trade requiring a licence) naturally apply to temporarily protected persons just like to everyone else. But the procedures for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications are also open to those affected, just like everyone else.
Persons with a residence permit for temporary protection in Germany are also eligible for advice and placement services in accordance with Social Code III (SGB III) through the employment agencies.
Should Ukrainian nationals have to apply for asylum?
No, that is not necessary. The required protection will be granted in another, faster procedure. Ukrainian nationals are therefore advised not to apply for asylum. However, the right to apply for asylum at a later stage continues regardless.
As a result of the Decision to admit war refugees pursuant to Article 5 para. 1 of Council Directive 2001/55/EC of 20 July 2001 on minimum standards for giving temporary protection, a residence title pursuant to Section 24 of the Residence Act (AufenthG; Granting of residence for temporary protection) will be granted with immediate effect to the group of persons covered upon application.
Registration upon entry does not constitute an asylum application. The implementation of an asylum procedure requires an application for asylum to be filed at the competent branch office of the Federal Office for Migration and Refugees.
For these reasons, filing an asylum application is not required to secure a right of residence or to claim social benefits.
Information portal of the German government
The Federal Ministry of the Interior and Home Affairs offers a digital information service in German, English, Russian, and Ukrainian. Here you can find all official information about residence and life in Germany.
 Germany4Ukraine
Embassy of Ukraine in Berlin
 +493028887128 Albrechtstraße 26, 10117 Berlin
