Deciding on the application for asylum
The Bundesamt für Migration und Flüchtlinge (BAMF) checks all statements, information and evidence after the personal hearing. It checks if, on the basis of the asylum law, one of the four »» forms of protection is present:

Entitlement to asylum
Protection of refugees
Subsidiary protection
Deportation ban

The asylum application is only rejected if none of these forms of protection can be recognised.
The decision is justified in writing and sent as a “Bescheid” (decision) to

The applicant or to persons who are given power of attorney in this procedure (lawyers).
The respective Ausländerbehörde (Immigration Office)

The decision is negative
If the decision is negative, you receive a rejection notice together with a threat of deportation letter: You are requested to leave the Federal Republic of Germany by a specific date. If you do not do this, you are threatened with forced deportation.
There are two different types of rejection:

simple rejection: You need to leave within 30 days.
Rejection as “obviously without reason”: The deadline to leave in this case is only one week.

Appeal
If you do not agree with the rejection decision, you can appeal against the notice in both cases. You need to do this very quickly after receiving the notice. You should, therefore, go immediately to the integration and refugee advice centre in your hostel. You can receive support there. To appeal against the decision you should always be advised and represented by a specialist lawyer for asylum and residence law. You will be informed in writing about all deadlines and legal possibilities in the written notice: This information is known as Rechtsbehelfsbelehrung (rights of legal appeal).
Voluntary departure
If you decide to leave the country voluntarily, you can receive financial support for the new start in your home country. The Büro für Rückkehrhilfen (Office for Return Assistance) can advise you.
 Büro für Rückkehrhilfen (Office for Return Assistance Munich)
You should tell the Ausländerbehörde (Immigration Office) as soon as possible that you want to leave voluntarily.
The decision is positive
You are recognised as entitled to seek protection. The next steps are:

Apply for a Fiktionsbescheinigung (probationary residence permit) or an electronic residence permit (eAT): If a positive BAMF notice has been given, it is necessary to arrange an identity document or equivalent immediately. You receive this at the »» Ausländerbehörde (Immigration Office).
You are now allowed to work in Germany without limitations.
If you don’t have a job and rely on support, you will no longer receive your money from the Sozialamt (Social Welfare Office); instead, you have to apply to the Jobcenter.

