Searching for somewhere to live
Finding somewhere to live
You can find apartment listings both in the local newspapers and on internet platforms for “Immobilien” or on ebay. On facebook there are local groups dedicated to looking for apartments and email newsletters in which apartments are offered.
JIZ – Housing advisory service for young people
On Mondays from 14:00 to 18:00, you can receive tips and information about looking for rooms and apartments in Munich at the JIZ – Housing advisory service in the Jugendinformationszentrum München (Youth Information Centre, Munich / JIZ). JIZ refers you to accommodation providers but unfortunately does not operate accommodation itself. JIZ CANNOT offer support in the SEARCH in the private housing market or in applying for social housing (SOWON). JIZ does, however, provide tips on looking for accommodation and has the addresses of many hostels and shared housing portals, primarily for single young people who are still in school, studying at university or doing an apprenticeship. In acute cases, the affected parties can also contact JIZ on the other days it is open (Tuesday–Friday from 13:00 to 18:00). Chances and possibilities are revealed in a one-to-one conversation with you and you are referred to specialist offices if necessary. The advice is, upon request, anonymous and no registration is necessary. At JIZ you can find a list (‘München TIPP’) with info about many youth hostels, room-letting agencies and websites for finding accommodation. The list is also available here as a PDF-download  www.wohnen.jiz-m.de  (also in ‘simple’ language or in English).
Who’s it for: All adolescents and young adults up to the age of 26 years (but not for families), in acute cases outside consultation hours on Monday.
Barrier-free access to the building and premises is available.
The service is free.
Jugendinformationszentrum München (Youth Information Centre Munich)
Sendlinger Straße 7 (in the courtyard!)
80331 Munich
 089/55052150
 info@jiz-muenchen.de
 JIZ - Housing advisory service: Monday 14:00–18:00
 Counselling in acute cases outside consultation hours also on Tuesday to Friday 13:00–18:00
 www.jiz-muenchen.de
This text contains information about the following search terms:
Housing, Room, Accommodation, Looking for an apartment, Looking for a room, Looking for a WG (shared apartment), Advice, Information, Help, Youth counselling, Youth information, Youths and teenagers, Young adults, Problems
WG – shared apartment
A shared apartment (WG) is a special form of communal living. Especially if you are looking for an apartment on your own, a shared apartment can be a good alternative to having your own flat. Living in a shared apartment means that you share an apartment with mostly young people. Every person there has their own room. You only share the common areas such as a bathroom, a kitchen or a living room.
You can find WG rooms on the internet website  WG-Gesucht.
Apartment viewing
Before an apartment is rented out there is often an apartment viewing. Usually several people interested in the apartment are invited to view it at the same time.
As affordable apartments are very rare in München, there are usually many people applying to rent them. Getting together all the necessary documentation early, such as SCHUFA information or tenant questionnaire, is, therefore, very important, and can increase your chances of finding an apartment.
It is a good idea to collect your documents in an “application folder” and take it to the viewing appointment.
The application folder should contain the following documents:

Cover letter (who am I/we are, what am I doing professionally, how old are my children, why would I like to rent the apartment)
 Tenant questionnaire
Copy of ID/Aufenthaltsgestattung (temporary residence permit) (please note: copy front and back)
 Copy of letter from Jobcenter/Sozialamt (Social Welfare Office) if you are not working
Salary from the last three months, if you are working
Copy of your Schufa statement (you can get it  here)
Copy of a certificate confirming you have no rent arrears outstanding (you receive this from your current landlord. You can use this  template)
Proof of personal liability insurance

