Asylum seekers
Aufenthaltsgestattung (temporary residence permit)
During the asylum procedure, legal limitations mean that it is not possible to travel abroad. Exceptions are made to allow school pupils to take part in class trips. These must be clarified with the »» Ausländerbehörde (Immigration Office) at an early stage.
As the Aufenthaltsgestattung (temporary residence permit) is not a full residence permit and therefore not a travel document, there is no basis for re-entry into Germany unless permission to leave the country is obtained.
Duldung – temporary postponement of deportation
Foreign trips (with subsequent re-entry into Germany) are not possible. Exceptions are made to allow school pupils to take part in class trips. These must be clarified with the »» Ausländerbehörde (Immigration Office) at an early stage.
As the Duldung (temporary postponement of deportation) is not a full residence permit and ultimately is aimed at ending your residence, there is no basis for re-entry into Germany unless permission to leave the country is obtained.
Request to leave the country if the asylum application is rejected
If the asylum application is rejected, you will normally receive a request to leave the country with a threat of deportation. The request to leave gives you a date by which you must leave Germany.
If the application is rejected as being “obviously without reason” or “invalid”, the deadline to leave is one week. In this case, you can appeal to the courts against this decision and make an emergency application (Eilantrag). To do this you should definitely get professional legal advice.
If the application is rejected as being “without reason”, the deadline to leave is 30 days. In this case, you can appeal to the courts against this decision and make an emergency application (Eilantrag). To do this you should definitely get professional legal advice.
Voluntary departure
If you decide on to depart voluntarily,

you must tell this to the »» Ausländerbehörde (Immigration Office) within the departure deadline.
via the  Büro für Rückkehrhilfen (Office for Return Assistance) you can receive financial support for travel expenses or to make a new start in your homeland (depending on the country), for example.
you need a document of your home country that entitles you to enter the country (such as a laissez passer, travel document, national passport...).
you can avoid being banned from re-entering and staying in Germany (“Wiedereinreisesperre”) (except “safe countries of origin”).
you can avoid legal action and legal costs.
you know the date of your departure and can prepare your arrival in your country of origin.
you avoid deportation arrest.

As you will have very little time after rejection of your application, you should get advice about this issue before your asylum procedure is decided and think about whether voluntary departure is possible for you.
You can get advice from the   Büro für Rückkehrhilfen (Office for Return Assistance).
Deportation
A deportation is ending the stay of a person who is obliged to leave the country, even if they do not agree with this. Before deportation occurs, the person will have received a request to leave (expulsion, permit refusal, departure decision ...) with a departure deadline. If the departure deadline passes and you have not left the country, you can be deported. The police are responsible for carrying out deportations.
Voluntary departure and re-entry for the purposes of education (§ 17 German Residence Act (AufenthG)) and employment (§ 18 par. 4 German Residence Act (AufenthG).)
Persons with an Aufenthaltsgestattung (temporary residence permit) or a Duldung (temporary postponement of deportation) who do not have any chances of a work permit or permission to undertake an apprenticeship or a job, can sometimes stay in Germany via the following route:

Confirmation of an apprenticeship place or a job in Germany (signed employment contract)
Voluntary departure to country of origin
Application for a visa for the purposes of education or employment at the German diplomatic mission in your country of origin
Re-entry for the purposes of education or employment (not asylum procedure!)

Please note: for this route you need to fulfil many conditions. Be sure to get advice in advance to be able to assess whether this route can work for you.
