
School holidays and public holidays
School holidays
Summer holidaysThe timing of the summer holidays is different depending on which federal state you live in. In Bavaria, the summer holidays normally last for the whole of August and the first two weeks of September. The summer holidays last for six weeks.
Autumn holidaysThe autumn holidays take place around the public holiday Allerheiligen (All Saints’ Day, 01 November) and usually last a week.
Christmas holidaysThe two-week Christmas holidays include Christmas Eve (24.12.) and the “Epiphany” public holiday (06.01.).
Spring holidaysThe week-long spring holidays start on Rosenmontag (Carnival Monday).
Easter holidaysEaster weekend takes place in the middle of the Easter holidays, which are always two weeks long.
Whitsun holidaysThe Christian Pentecost (Whitsun) public holiday takes place at the beginning of the two-week Whitsun holidays.
You can find the exact dates of the upcoming school holidays at  Bayerischen Staatsministerium für Unterricht und Kultus.
Public holidays in Bavaria
Public holidays are days on which you don’t go to work, and shops and public authorities are closed. Some of them have a religious background, others a political one. Some public holidays are always on the same day; others shift slightly from year to year.

1 January (New Year)
6 January (Epiphany)
Good Friday
Easter Monday
1 May (Labour Day)
Ascension Day
Whit Monday (Pentecost)
Corpus Christi
15 August (Assumption Day)
3 October (German Unity Day)
1 November (All Saints’ Day)
25 and 26 December (Christmas Day and Boxing Day)

»» Public holidays 2023
Religious holidays of different religions
Jewish school pupils are released from the obligation to take part in tuition or other school events on the following days:

on the first two days and the last two days of Pessach,
on both days of the Festival of Weeks,
on the first two days and the last two days of the Feast of Tabernacles,
on both days of the New Year Festival,
and on the Day of Atonement.

Muslim school pupils are released from the obligation to take part in lessons or other school events on the first two days of the religious feasts Ramazan Bayrami and Kurban Bayrami.
School pupils of Orthodox faiths are released from the obligation to take part in lessons or other school events on the Orthodox feasts of Good Friday, Holy Saturday, Easter Monday, Christmas Day, the Feast of Theophany and on Ascension Day. The public holidays for the different Christian-Orthodox churches can fall on different days.
 Find out more
