
Recognition of foreign professional qualifications
If you have acquired a vocational qualification abroad, you can have it checked to see whether it can be recognised or classified as equivalent in Germany. You have a legal right to this under the Vocational Qualifications Assessment Act (Berufsqualifikationsfeststellungsgesetz, BQFG). There are three counselling centres in Munich that can support and guide you in this process.
Service Centre for the Development of Foreign Qualifications
We provide advice on all questions concerning the recognition of foreign vocational qualifications. We support you in the process of recognition of acquired vocational and academic qualifications. We provide information on financial assistance for recognition and guide you through the procedure. If you wish, you will be placed in suitable courses and qualification measures. The Mentoring Partnership Munich is one example.
 Learn more
Who for: People with foreign vocational and academic qualifications
 Interpreters are available.
Children can be brought along.
There is barrier-free access to the building and premises and a WC suitable for the disabled.
The offer is free of charge.
Please make an appointment.
Service Centre for the Development of Foreign QualificationsFranziskanerstraße 881669 Munich 089/23340520 Office hours by telephone:Tuesday 11:00 to 12:00Thursday 14:00 to 15:00 servicestelle-anerkennung.soz@muenchen.de

Chamber of Skilled Crafts (HWK) for Munich and Upper Bavaria
We advise you on foreign vocational qualifications and determine whether the qualification can be recognised in Germany.
Who for: Craftspeople who have completed a state-recognised qualification in their country of origin.
 There are interpreters for English and French.
Children can be brought along.
There is barrier-free access to the building and premises and a disabled toilet.
Costs:

It costs 100 to 600 euros to carry out the equivalence check and issue the certificate.
If a qualification analysis is required in addition to checking the written evidence, additional costs will be incurred.

Chamber of Skilled Crafts for Munich and Upper BavariaMax-Joseph-Strasse 480333 Munich 089/5119264 berufsanerkennung@hwk-muenchen.de www.hwk-muenchen.de Monday to Friday 07:30 - 18:00

Chamber of Industry and Commerce (IHK) for Munich and Upper Bavaria
Have you completed your vocational training in the fields of industry, commerce, gastronomy and services abroad and would now like to work in Germany?
Here you can have your vocational qualification recognised and thus increase your chances on the German labour market.
At the IHK you can get free advice and clarify the following questions:

Does applying for recognition make sense for you?
What documents do you need for the application?
How does the recognition process work? How long does it take?
What are the costs? Can you get financial support?
To which German vocational qualification can your qualification be compared?

You can find more information  here and  here.
Who for: Refugees and new immigrants.
Children can be brought along.
There is barrier-free access to the building and premises.
The offer is free of charge.
Please make an appointment.
Chamber of Industry and Commerce for Munich and Upper BavariaOrleansstraße 10-12, Campus D81669 Munich 089/51160 berufsanerkennung@muenchen.ihk.de Appointments by telephoneMonday to Thursday 09:00 - 16:30Friday 09:00 - 15:00

This text contains information on the following search terms:Integration, qualification, vocational qualification, work experience, professions, recognition counselling, study, work, specialist counselling
