Media in Ukrainian
‘Shaun the Sheep’, ‘Little Mole’ and ‘The Little Sandman’The ARD-Mediathek media library has children’s programmes in Ukrainian: ARD-Mediathek
Where did the ladybird hide her wings? How do crayons get their colours? Why does a squirrel have such a bushy tail?Here you can find some funny and true stories about a mouse, an elephant and a duck: The mouse’s page
Psychosocial support for people from UkrainePeople who have fled to us from the horrific war in Ukraine have experienced horrendous things. Children, in particular, were and are subject to heavy psychological stresses. Yet children can be highly resilient if they are given help quickly. It is therefore also important for parents to know how to care for their children, and for themselves. Our task at Refugio is to provide therapy and counselling for people who have been traumatised by war and fleeing from it. To provide a first step, our experts have created two videos. The videos are in Ukrainian, with subtitles in German: Refugio website
News with subtitles in Ukrainian and RussianAfter the 20:00 edition of the news has been broadcast live, the words of the presenters and those of the reporters and correspondents are translated into Ukrainian and Russian by certified translators: tagesschau (News)
News in Ukrainian with Karolina AshionFrom Monday to Friday, Karolina Ashion from Kyiv presents 10-minute pieces related to the Ukraine conflict and to daily life for refugees in Germany: NTV News
Collected information of the Munich City LibraryThe Münchner Stadtbibliothek (Munich City Library) has gathered a large body of information sources on the war in Ukraine and the situation for refugees in Munich. This helps us provide an overview of which sources can be trusted by interested persons and how misleading information can be detected.We also present a number of media recommendations about the situation in Ukraine, plus novels, biographies and stories by Ukrainian authors.Opportunities for helping people in Ukraine have also been brought together here. https://www.muenchner-stadtbibliothek.de/ukraine
 